first_line,text,len,note,text_raw,len_raw
  Success is counted sweetest,"  Success is counted sweetest
  
  By those who ne'er succeed.
  
  To comprehend a nectar
  
  Requires sorest need.
  

  Not one of all the purple host
  
  Who took the flag to-day
  
  Can tell the definition,
  
  So clear, of victory,
  

  As he, defeated, dying,
  
  On whose forbidden ear
  
  The distant strains of triumph
  
  Break, agonized and clear!",367,,success is counted sweetest by those who neer succeed to comprehend a nectar requires sorest need not one of all the purple host who took the flag today can tell the definition so clear of victory as he defeated dying on whose forbidden ear the distant strains of triumph break agonized and clear,296
"  Our share of night to bear,","  Our share of night to bear,
  
  Our share of morning,
  
  Our blank in bliss to fill,
  
  Our blank in scorning.
  

  Here a star, and there a star,
  
  Some lose their way.
  
  Here a mist, and there a mist,
  
  Afterwards — day!",239,,our share of night to bear our share of morning our blank in bliss to fill our blank in scorning here a star and there a star some lose their way here a mist and there a mist afterwards day,189
"  Soul, wilt thou toss again?","  Soul, wilt thou toss again?
  
  By just such a hazard
  
  Hundreds have lost, indeed,
  
  But tens have won an all.
  

  Angels' breathless ballot
  
  Lingers to record thee;
  
  Imps in eager caucus
  
  Raffle for my soul.",232,,soul wilt thou toss again by just such a hazard hundreds have lost indeed but tens have won an all angels breathless ballot lingers to record thee imps in eager caucus raffle for my soul,186
  'T is so much joy! 'T is so much joy!,"  'T is so much joy! 'T is so much joy!
  
  If I should fail, what poverty!
  
  And yet, as poor as I
  
  Have ventured all upon a throw;
  
  Have gained! Yes! Hesitated so
  
  This side the victory!
  

  Life is but life, and death but death!
  
  Bliss is but bliss, and breath but breath!
  
  And if, indeed, I fail,
  
  At least to know the worst is sweet.
  
  Defeat means nothing but defeat,
  
  No drearier can prevail!
  

  And if I gain, — oh, gun at sea,
  
  Oh, bells that in the steeples be,
  
  At first repeat it slow!
  
  For heaven is a different thing
  
  Conjectured, and waked sudden in,
  
  And might o'erwhelm me so!",653,,t is so much joy t is so much joy if i should fail what poverty and yet as poor as i have ventured all upon a throw have gained yes hesitated so this side the victory life is but life and death but death bliss is but bliss and breath but breath and if indeed i fail at least to know the worst is sweet defeat means nothing but defeat no drearier can prevail and if i gain oh gun at sea oh bells that in the steeples be at first repeat it slow for heaven is a different thing conjectured and waked sudden in and might oerwhelm me so,531
  Glee! The great storm is over!,"  Glee! The great storm is over!
  
  Four have recovered the land;
  
  Forty gone down together
  
  Into the boiling sand.
  

  Ring, for the scant salvation!
  
  Toll, for the bonnie souls, —
  
  Neighbor and friend and bridegroom,
  
  Spinning upon the shoals!
  

  How they will tell the shipwreck
  
  When winter shakes the door,
  
  Till the children ask, ""But the forty?
  
  Did they come back no more?""
  

  Then a silence suffuses the story,
  
  And a softness the teller's eye;
  
  And the children no further question,
  
  And only the waves reply.",573,,glee the great storm is over four have recovered the land forty gone down together into the boiling sand ring for the scant salvation toll for the bonnie souls neighbor and friend and bridegroom spinning upon the shoals how they will tell the shipwreck when winter shakes the door till the children ask but the forty did they come back no more then a silence suffuses the story and a softness the tellers eye and the children no further question and only the waves reply,470
"  If I can stop one heart from breaking,","  If I can stop one heart from breaking,
  
  I shall not live in vain;
  
  If I can ease one life the aching,
  
  Or cool one pain,
  
  Or help one fainting robin
  
  Unto his nest again,
  
  I shall not live in vain.",223,,if i can stop one heart from breaking i shall not live in vain if i can ease one life the aching or cool one pain or help one fainting robin unto his nest again i shall not live in vain,185
  Within my reach!,"  Within my reach!
  
  I could have touched!
  
  I might have chanced that way!
  
  Soft sauntered through the village,
  
  Sauntered as soft away!
  
  So unsuspected violets
  
  Within the fields lie low,
  
  Too late for striving fingers
  
  That passed, an hour ago.",277,,within my reach i could have touched i might have chanced that way soft sauntered through the village sauntered as soft away so unsuspected violets within the fields lie low too late for striving fingers that passed an hour ago,227
"  A wounded deer leaps highest,","  A wounded deer leaps highest,
  
  I've heard the hunter tell;
  
  'T is but the ecstasy of death,
  
  And then the brake is still.
  

  The smitten rock that gushes,
  
  The trampled steel that springs;
  
  A cheek is always redder
  
  Just where the hectic stings!
  

  Mirth is the mail of anguish,
  
  In which it cautions arm,
  
  Lest anybody spy the blood
  
  And ""You're hurt"" exclaim!",405,,a wounded deer leaps highest ive heard the hunter tell t is but the ecstasy of death and then the brake is still the smitten rock that gushes the trampled steel that springs a cheek is always redder just where the hectic stings mirth is the mail of anguish in which it cautions arm lest anybody spy the blood and youre hurt exclaim,331
"  The heart asks pleasure first,","  The heart asks pleasure first,
  
  And then, excuse from pain;
  
  And then, those little anodynes
  
  That deaden suffering;
  

  And then, to go to sleep;
  
  And then, if it should be
  
  The will of its Inquisitor,
  
  The liberty to die.",251,,the heart asks pleasure first and then excuse from pain and then those little anodynes that deaden suffering and then to go to sleep and then if it should be the will of its inquisitor the liberty to die,203
"  A precious, mouldering pleasure 't is","  A precious, mouldering pleasure 't is
  
  To meet an antique book,
  
  In just the dress his century wore;
  
  A privilege, I think,
  

  His venerable hand to take,
  
  And warming in our own,
  
  A passage back, or two, to make
  
  To times when he was young.
  

  His quaint opinions to inspect,
  
  His knowledge to unfold
  
  On what concerns our mutual mind,
  
  The literature of old;
  

  What interested scholars most,
  
  What competitions ran
  
  When Plato was a certainty.
  
  And Sophocles a man;
  

  When Sappho was a living girl,
  
  And Beatrice wore
  
  The gown that Dante deified.
  
  Facts, centuries before,
  

  He traverses familiar,
  
  As one should come to town
  
  And tell you all your dreams were true;
  
  He lived where dreams were sown.
  

  His presence is enchantment,
  
  You beg him not to go;
  
  Old volumes shake their vellum heads
  
  And tantalize, just so.",929,,a precious mouldering pleasure t is to meet an antique book in just the dress his century wore a privilege i think his venerable hand to take and warming in our own a passage back or two to make to times when he was young his quaint opinions to inspect his knowledge to unfold on what concerns our mutual mind the literature of old what interested scholars most what competitions ran when plato was a certainty and sophocles a man when sappho was a living girl and beatrice wore the gown that dante deified facts centuries before he traverses familiar as one should come to town and tell you all your dreams were true he lived where dreams were sown his presence is enchantment you beg him not to go old volumes shake their vellum heads and tantalize just so,758
  Much madness is divinest sense,"  Much madness is divinest sense
  
  To a discerning eye;
  
  Much sense the starkest madness.
  
  'T is the majority
  
  In this, as all, prevails.
  
  Assent, and you are sane;
  
  Demur, — you're straightway dangerous,
  
  And handled with a chain.",258,,much madness is divinest sense to a discerning eye much sense the starkest madness t is the majority in this as all prevails assent and you are sane demur youre straightway dangerous and handled with a chain,207
"  I asked no other thing,","  I asked no other thing,
  
  No other was denied.
  
  I offered Being for it;
  
  The mighty merchant smiled.
  

  Brazil? He twirled a button,
  
  Without a glance my way:
  
  ""But, madam, is there nothing else
  
  That we can show to-day?""",249,,i asked no other thing no other was denied i offered being for it the mighty merchant smiled brazil he twirled a button without a glance my way but madam is there nothing else that we can show today,198
"  The soul selects her own society,","  The soul selects her own society,
  
  Then shuts the door;
  
  On her divine majority
  
  Obtrude no more.
  

  Unmoved, she notes the chariot's pausing
  
  At her low gate;
  
  Unmoved, an emperor is kneeling
  
  Upon her mat.
  

  I've known her from an ample nation
  
  Choose one;
  
  Then close the valves of her attention
  
  Like stone.",356,,the soul selects her own society then shuts the door on her divine majority obtrude no more unmoved she notes the chariots pausing at her low gate unmoved an emperor is kneeling upon her mat ive known her from an ample nation choose one then close the valves of her attention like stone,286
"  Some things that fly there be, —","  Some things that fly there be, —
  
  Birds, hours, the bumble-bee:
  
  Of these no elegy.
  

  Some things that stay there be, —
  
  Grief, hills, eternity:
  
  Nor this behooveth me.
  

  There are, that resting, rise.
  
  Can I expound the skies?
  
  How still the riddle lies!",289,,some things that fly there be birds hours the bumblebee of these no elegy some things that stay there be grief hills eternity nor this behooveth me there are that resting rise can i expound the skies how still the riddle lies,225
  I know some lonely houses off the road,"  I know some lonely houses off the road
  
  A robber 'd like the look of, —
  
  Wooden barred,
  
  And windows hanging low,
  
  Inviting to
  
  A portico,
  
  Where two could creep:
  
  One hand the tools,
  
  The other peep
  
  To make sure all's asleep.
  
  Old-fashioned eyes,
  
  Not easy to surprise!
  

  How orderly the kitchen 'd look by night,
  
  With just a clock, —
  
  But they could gag the tick,
  
  And mice won't bark;
  
  And so the walls don't tell,
  
  None will.
  

  A pair of spectacles ajar just stir —
  
  An almanac's aware.
  
  Was it the mat winked,
  
  Or a nervous star?
  
  The moon slides down the stair
  
  To see who's there.
  

  There's plunder, — where?
  
  Tankard, or spoon,
  
  Earring, or stone,
  
  A watch, some ancient brooch
  
  To match the grandmamma,
  
  Staid sleeping there.
  

  Day rattles, too,
  
  Stealth's slow;
  
  The sun has got as far
  
  As the third sycamore.
  
  Screams chanticleer,
  
  ""Who's there?""
  
  And echoes, trains away,
  
  Sneer — ""Where?""
  
  While the old couple, just astir,
  
  Fancy the sunrise left the door ajar!",1135,,i know some lonely houses off the road a robber d like the look of wooden barred and windows hanging low inviting to a portico where two could creep one hand the tools the other peep to make sure alls asleep oldfashioned eyes not easy to surprise how orderly the kitchen d look by night with just a clock but they could gag the tick and mice wont bark and so the walls dont tell none will a pair of spectacles ajar just stir an almanacs aware was it the mat winked or a nervous star the moon slides down the stair to see whos there theres plunder where tankard or spoon earring or stone a watch some ancient brooch to match the grandmamma staid sleeping there day rattles too stealths slow the sun has got as far as the third sycamore screams chanticleer whos there and echoes trains away sneer where while the old couple just astir fancy the sunrise left the door ajar,869
"  To fight aloud is very brave,","  To fight aloud is very brave,
  
  But gallanter, I know,
  
  Who charge within the bosom,
  
  The cavalry of woe.
  

  Who win, and nations do not see,
  
  Who fall, and none observe,
  
  Whose dying eyes no country
  
  Regards with patriot love.
  

  We trust, in plumed procession,
  
  For such the angels go,
  
  Rank after rank, with even feet
  
  And uniforms of snow.",386,,to fight aloud is very brave but gallanter i know who charge within the bosom the cavalry of woe who win and nations do not see who fall and none observe whose dying eyes no country regards with patriot love we trust in plumed procession for such the angels go rank after rank with even feet and uniforms of snow,312
"  When night is almost done,","  When night is almost done,
  
  And sunrise grows so near
  
  That we can touch the spaces,
  
  It 's time to smooth the hair
  

  And get the dimples ready,
  
  And wonder we could care
  
  For that old faded midnight
  
  That frightened but an hour.",259,,when night is almost done and sunrise grows so near that we can touch the spaces it s time to smooth the hair and get the dimples ready and wonder we could care for that old faded midnight that frightened but an hour,216
"  Read, sweet, how others strove,","  Read, sweet, how others strove,
  
  Till we are stouter;
  
  What they renounced,
  
  Till we are less afraid;
  
  How many times they bore
  
  The faithful witness,
  
  Till we are helped,
  
  As if a kingdom cared!
  

  Read then of faith
  
  That shone above the fagot;
  
  Clear strains of hymn
  
  The river could not drown;
  
  Brave names of men
  
  And celestial women,
  
  Passed out of record
  
  Into renown!",436,,read sweet how others strove till we are stouter what they renounced till we are less afraid how many times they bore the faithful witness till we are helped as if a kingdom cared read then of faith that shone above the fagot clear strains of hymn the river could not drown brave names of men and celestial women passed out of record into renown,345
  Pain has an element of blank;,"  Pain has an element of blank;
  
  It cannot recollect
  
  When it began, or if there were
  
  A day when it was not.
  

  It has no future but itself,
  
  Its infinite realms contain
  
  Its past, enlightened to perceive
  
  New periods of pain.",254,,pain has an element of blank it cannot recollect when it began or if there were a day when it was not it has no future but itself its infinite realms contain its past enlightened to perceive new periods of pain,210
"  I taste a liquor never brewed,","  I taste a liquor never brewed,
  
  From tankards scooped in pearl;
  
  Not all the vats upon the Rhine
  
  Yield such an alcohol!
  

  Inebriate of air am I,
  
  And debauchee of dew,
  
  Reeling, through endless summer days,
  
  From inns of molten blue.
  

  When landlords turn the drunken bee
  
  Out of the foxglove's door,
  
  When butterflies renounce their drams,
  
  I shall but drink the more!
  

  Till seraphs swing their snowy hats,
  
  And saints to windows run,
  
  To see the little tippler
  
  Leaning against the sun!",552,,i taste a liquor never brewed from tankards scooped in pearl not all the vats upon the rhine yield such an alcohol inebriate of air am i and debauchee of dew reeling through endless summer days from inns of molten blue when landlords turn the drunken bee out of the foxgloves door when butterflies renounce their drams i shall but drink the more till seraphs swing their snowy hats and saints to windows run to see the little tippler leaning against the sun,457
"  He ate and drank the precious words,","  He ate and drank the precious words,
  
  His spirit grew robust;
  
  He knew no more that he was poor,
  
  Nor that his frame was dust.
  
  He danced along the dingy days,
  
  And this bequest of wings
  
  Was but a book. What liberty
  
  A loosened spirit brings!",273,,he ate and drank the precious words his spirit grew robust he knew no more that he was poor nor that his frame was dust he danced along the dingy days and this bequest of wings was but a book what liberty a loosened spirit brings,229
"  I had no time to hate, because","  I had no time to hate, because
  
  The grave would hinder me,
  
  And life was not so ample I
  
  Could finish enmity.
  

  Nor had I time to love; but since
  
  Some industry must be,
  
  The little toil of love, I thought,
  
  Was large enough for me.",262,,i had no time to hate because the grave would hinder me and life was not so ample i could finish enmity nor had i time to love but since some industry must be the little toil of love i thought was large enough for me,216
"  'T was such a little, little boat","  'T was such a little, little boat
  
  That toddled down the bay!
  
  'T was such a gallant, gallant sea
  
  That beckoned it away!
  

  'T was such a greedy, greedy wave
  
  That licked it from the coast;
  
  Nor ever guessed the stately sails
  
  My little craft was lost!",282,,t was such a little little boat that toddled down the bay t was such a gallant gallant sea that beckoned it away t was such a greedy greedy wave that licked it from the coast nor ever guessed the stately sails my little craft was lost,234
"  Whether my bark went down at sea,","  Whether my bark went down at sea,
  
  Whether she met with gales,
  
  Whether to isles enchanted
  
  She bent her docile sails;
  

  By what mystic mooring
  
  She is held to-day, —
  
  This is the errand of the eye
  
  Out upon the bay.",246,,whether my bark went down at sea whether she met with gales whether to isles enchanted she bent her docile sails by what mystic mooring she is held today this is the errand of the eye out upon the bay,200
"  Belshazzar had a letter, —","  Belshazzar had a letter, —
  
  He never had but one;
  
  Belshazzar's correspondent
  
  Concluded and begun
  
  In that immortal copy
  
  The conscience of us all
  
  Can read without its glasses
  
  On revelation's wall.",230,,belshazzar had a letter he never had but one belshazzars correspondent concluded and begun in that immortal copy the conscience of us all can read without its glasses on revelations wall,186
  The brain within its groove,"  The brain within its groove
  
  Runs evenly and true;
  
  But let a splinter swerve,
  
  'T were easier for you
  
  To put the water back
  
  When floods have slit the hills,
  
  And scooped a turnpike for themselves,
  
  And blotted out the mills!",257,,the brain within its groove runs evenly and true but let a splinter swerve t were easier for you to put the water back when floods have slit the hills and scooped a turnpike for themselves and blotted out the mills,214
  Mine by the right of the white election!,"  Mine by the right of the white election!
  
  Mine by the royal seal!
  
  Mine by the sign in the scarlet prison
  
  Bars cannot conceal!
  

  Mine, here in vision and in veto!
  
  Mine, by the grave's repeal
  
  Titled, confirmed, — delirious charter!
  
  Mine, while the ages steal!",292,,mine by the right of the white election mine by the royal seal mine by the sign in the scarlet prison bars cannot conceal mine here in vision and in veto mine by the graves repeal titled confirmed delirious charter mine while the ages steal,240
"  You left me, sweet, two legacies, —","  You left me, sweet, two legacies, —
  
  A legacy of love
  
  A Heavenly Father would content,
  
  Had He the offer of;
  

  You left me boundaries of pain
  
  Capacious as the sea,
  
  Between eternity and time,
  
  Your consciousness and me.",251,,you left me sweet two legacies a legacy of love a heavenly father would content had he the offer of you left me boundaries of pain capacious as the sea between eternity and time your consciousness and me,203
  Alter? When the hills do.,"  Alter? When the hills do.
  
  Falter? When the sun
  
  Question if his glory
  
  Be the perfect one.
  

  Surfeit? When the daffodil
  
  Doth of the dew:
  
  Even as herself, O friend!
  
  I will of you!",212,,alter when the hills do falter when the sun question if his glory be the perfect one surfeit when the daffodil doth of the dew even as herself o friend i will of you,165
  Elysium is as far as to,"  Elysium is as far as to
  
  The very nearest room,
  
  If in that room a friend await
  
  Felicity or doom.
  

  What fortitude the soul contains,
  
  That it can so endure
  
  The accent of a coming foot,
  
  The opening of a door!",241,,elysium is as far as to the very nearest room if in that room a friend await felicity or doom what fortitude the soul contains that it can so endure the accent of a coming foot the opening of a door,198
"  Doubt me, my dim companion!","  Doubt me, my dim companion!
  
  Why, God would be content
  
  With but a fraction of the love
  
  Poured thee without a stint.
  
  The whole of me, forever,
  
  What more the woman can, —
  
  Say quick, that I may dower thee
  
  With last delight I own!
  

  It cannot be my spirit,
  
  For that was thine before;
  
  I ceded all of dust I knew, —
  
  What opulence the more
  
  Had I, a humble maiden,
  
  Whose farthest of degree
  
  Was that she might,
  
  Some distant heaven,
  
  Dwell timidly with thee!",527,,doubt me my dim companion why god would be content with but a fraction of the love poured thee without a stint the whole of me forever what more the woman can say quick that i may dower thee with last delight i own it cannot be my spirit for that was thine before i ceded all of dust i knew what opulence the more had i a humble maiden whose farthest of degree was that she might some distant heaven dwell timidly with thee,423
"  If you were coming in the fall,","  If you were coming in the fall,
  
  I'd brush the summer by
  
  With half a smile and half a spurn,
  
  As housewives do a fly.
  

  If I could see you in a year,
  
  I'd wind the months in balls,
  
  And put them each in separate drawers,
  
  Until their time befalls.
  

  If only centuries delayed,
  
  I'd count them on my hand,
  
  Subtracting till my fingers dropped
  
  Into Van Diemen's land.
  

  If certain, when this life was out,
  
  That yours and mine should be,
  
  I'd toss it yonder like a rind,
  
  And taste eternity.
  

  But now, all ignorant of the length
  
  Of time's uncertain wing,
  
  It goads me, like the goblin bee,
  
  That will not state its sting.",701,,if you were coming in the fall id brush the summer by with half a smile and half a spurn as housewives do a fly if i could see you in a year id wind the months in balls and put them each in separate drawers until their time befalls if only centuries delayed id count them on my hand subtracting till my fingers dropped into van diemens land if certain when this life was out that yours and mine should be id toss it yonder like a rind and taste eternity but now all ignorant of the length of times uncertain wing it goads me like the goblin bee that will not state its sting,574
"  I hide myself within my flower,","  I hide myself within my flower,
  
  That wearing on your breast,
  
  You, unsuspecting, wear me too —
  
  And angels know the rest.
  

  I hide myself within my flower,
  
  That, fading from your vase,
  
  You, unsuspecting, feel for me
  
  Almost a loneliness.",270,,i hide myself within my flower that wearing on your breast you unsuspecting wear me too and angels know the rest i hide myself within my flower that fading from your vase you unsuspecting feel for me almost a loneliness,219
"  That I did always love,","  That I did always love,
  
  I bring thee proof:
  
  That till I loved
  
  I did not love enough.
  

  That I shall love alway,
  
  I offer thee
  
  That love is life,
  
  And life hath immortality.
  

  This, dost thou doubt, sweet?
  
  Then have I
  
  Nothing to show
  
  But Calvary.",298,,that i did always love i bring thee proof that till i loved i did not love enough that i shall love alway i offer thee that love is life and life hath immortality this dost thou doubt sweet then have i nothing to show but calvary,229
"  Have you got a brook in your little heart,","  Have you got a brook in your little heart,
  
  Where bashful flowers blow,
  
  And blushing birds go down to drink,
  
  And shadows tremble so?
  

  And nobody knows, so still it flows,
  
  That any brook is there;
  
  And yet your little draught of life
  
  Is daily drunken there.
  

  Then look out for the little brook in March,
  
  When the rivers overflow,
  
  And the snows come hurrying from the hills,
  
  And the bridges often go.
  

  And later, in August it may be,
  
  When the meadows parching lie,
  
  Beware, lest this little brook of life
  
  Some burning noon go dry!",602,,have you got a brook in your little heart where bashful flowers blow and blushing birds go down to drink and shadows tremble so and nobody knows so still it flows that any brook is there and yet your little draught of life is daily drunken there then look out for the little brook in march when the rivers overflow and the snows come hurrying from the hills and the bridges often go and later in august it may be when the meadows parching lie beware lest this little brook of life some burning noon go dry,505
"  As if some little Arctic flower,","  As if some little Arctic flower,
  
  Upon the polar hem,
  
  Went wandering down the latitudes,
  
  Until it puzzled came
  
  To continents of summer,
  
  To firmaments of sun,
  
  To strange, bright crowds of flowers,
  
  And birds of foreign tongue!
  
  I say, as if this little flower
  
  To Eden wandered in —
  
  What then? Why, nothing, only,
  
  Your inference therefrom!",391,,as if some little arctic flower upon the polar hem went wandering down the latitudes until it puzzled came to continents of summer to firmaments of sun to strange bright crowds of flowers and birds of foreign tongue i say as if this little flower to eden wandered in what then why nothing only your inference therefrom,318
  My river runs to thee:,"  My river runs to thee:
  
  Blue sea, wilt welcome me?
  

  My river waits reply.
  
  Oh sea, look graciously!
  

  I'll fetch thee brooks
  
  From spotted nooks, —
  

  Say, sea,
  
  Take me!",200,,my river runs to thee blue sea wilt welcome me my river waits reply oh sea look graciously ill fetch thee brooks from spotted nooks say sea take me,147
"  I cannot live with you,","  I cannot live with you,
  
  It would be life,
  
  And life is over there
  
  Behind the shelf
  

  The sexton keeps the key to,
  
  Putting up
  
  Our life, his porcelain,
  
  Like a cup
  

  Discarded of the housewife,
  
  Quaint or broken;
  
  A newer Sevres pleases,
  
  Old ones crack.
  

  I could not die with you,
  
  For one must wait
  
  To shut the other's gaze down, —
  
  You could not.
  

  And I, could I stand by
  
  And see you freeze,
  
  Without my right of frost,
  
  Death's privilege?
  

  Nor could I rise with you,
  
  Because your face
  
  Would put out Jesus',
  
  That new grace
  

  Glow plain and foreign
  
  On my homesick eye,
  
  Except that you, than he
  
  Shone closer by.
  

  They'd judge us — how?
  
  For you served Heaven, you know,
  
  Or sought to;
  
  I could not,
  

  Because you saturated sight,
  
  And I had no more eyes
  
  For sordid excellence
  
  As Paradise.
  

  And were you lost, I would be,
  
  Though my name
  
  Rang loudest
  
  On the heavenly fame.
  

  And were you saved,
  
  And I condemned to be
  
  Where you were not,
  
  That self were hell to me.
  

  So we must keep apart,
  
  You there, I here,
  
  With just the door ajar
  
  That oceans are,
  
  And prayer,
  
  And that pale sustenance,
  
  Despair!",1325,,i cannot live with you it would be life and life is over there behind the shelf the sexton keeps the key to putting up our life his porcelain like a cup discarded of the housewife quaint or broken a newer sevres pleases old ones crack i could not die with you for one must wait to shut the others gaze down you could not and i could i stand by and see you freeze without my right of frost deaths privilege nor could i rise with you because your face would put out jesus that new grace glow plain and foreign on my homesick eye except that you than he shone closer by theyd judge us how for you served heaven you know or sought to i could not because you saturated sight and i had no more eyes for sordid excellence as paradise and were you lost i would be though my name rang loudest on the heavenly fame and were you saved and i condemned to be where you were not that self were hell to me so we must keep apart you there i here with just the door ajar that oceans are and prayer and that pale sustenance despair,1013
"  I'm ceded, I've stopped being theirs;","  I'm ceded, I've stopped being theirs;
  
  The name they dropped upon my face
  
  With water, in the country church,
  
  Is finished using now,
  
  And they can put it with my dolls,
  
  My childhood, and the string of spools
  
  I've finished threading too.
  

  Baptized before without the choice,
  
  But this time consciously, of grace
  
  Unto supremest name,
  
  Called to my full, the crescent dropped,
  
  Existence's whole arc filled up
  
  With one small diadem.
  

  My second rank, too small the first,
  
  Crowned, crowing on my father's breast,
  
  A half unconscious queen;
  
  But this time, adequate, erect,
  
  With will to choose or to reject.
  
  And I choose — just a throne.",715,,im ceded ive stopped being theirs the name they dropped upon my face with water in the country church is finished using now and they can put it with my dolls my childhood and the string of spools ive finished threading too baptized before without the choice but this time consciously of grace unto supremest name called to my full the crescent dropped existences whole arc filled up with one small diadem my second rank too small the first crowned crowing on my fathers breast a half unconscious queen but this time adequate erect with will to choose or to reject and i choose just a throne,590
"  'T was a long parting, but the time","  'T was a long parting, but the time
  
  For interview had come;
  
  Before the judgment-seat of God,
  
  The last and second time
  

  These fleshless lovers met,
  
  A heaven in a gaze,
  
  A heaven of heavens, the privilege
  
  Of one another's eyes.
  

  No lifetime set on them,
  
  Apparelled as the new
  
  Unborn, except they had beheld,
  
  Born everlasting now.
  

  Was bridal e'er like this?
  
  A paradise, the host,
  
  And cherubim and seraphim
  
  The most familiar guest.",504,,t was a long parting but the time for interview had come before the judgmentseat of god the last and second time these fleshless lovers met a heaven in a gaze a heaven of heavens the privilege of one anothers eyes no lifetime set on them apparelled as the new unborn except they had beheld born everlasting now was bridal eer like this a paradise the host and cherubim and seraphim the most familiar guest,405
"  I'm wife; I've finished that,","  I'm wife; I've finished that,
  
  That other state;
  
  I'm Czar, I'm woman now:
  
  It's safer so.
  

  How odd the girl's life looks
  
  Behind this soft eclipse!
  
  I think that earth seems so
  
  To those in heaven now.
  

  This being comfort, then
  
  That other kind was pain;
  
  But why compare?
  
  I'm wife! stop there!",344,,im wife ive finished that that other state im czar im woman now its safer so how odd the girls life looks behind this soft eclipse i think that earth seems so to those in heaven now this being comfort then that other kind was pain but why compare im wife stop there,265
"  She rose to his requirement, dropped","  She rose to his requirement, dropped
  
  The playthings of her life
  
  To take the honorable work
  
  Of woman and of wife.
  

  If aught she missed in her new day
  
  Of amplitude, or awe,
  
  Or first prospective, or the gold
  
  In using wore away,
  

  It lay unmentioned, as the sea
  
  Develops pearl and weed,
  
  But only to himself is known
  
  The fathoms they abide.",391,,she rose to his requirement dropped the playthings of her life to take the honorable work of woman and of wife if aught she missed in her new day of amplitude or awe or first prospective or the gold in using wore away it lay unmentioned as the sea develops pearl and weed but only to himself is known the fathoms they abide,323
"  Come slowly, Eden!","  Come slowly, Eden!
  
  Lips unused to thee,
  
  Bashful, sip thy jasmines,
  
  As the fainting bee,
  

  Reaching late his flower,
  
  Round her chamber hums,
  
  Counts his nectars — enters,
  
  And is lost in balms!",226,,come slowly eden lips unused to thee bashful sip thy jasmines as the fainting bee reaching late his flower round her chamber hums counts his nectars enters and is lost in balms,176
"  New feet within my garden go,","  New feet within my garden go,
  
  New fingers stir the sod;
  
  A troubadour upon the elm
  
  Betrays the solitude.
  

  New children play upon the green,
  
  New weary sleep below;
  
  And still the pensive spring returns,
  
  And still the punctual snow!",265,,new feet within my garden go new fingers stir the sod a troubadour upon the elm betrays the solitude new children play upon the green new weary sleep below and still the pensive spring returns and still the punctual snow,220
"  Pink, small, and punctual,","  Pink, small, and punctual,
  
  Aromatic, low,
  
  Covert in April,
  
  Candid in May,
  

  Dear to the moss,
  
  Known by the knoll,
  
  Next to the robin
  
  In every human soul.
  

  Bold little beauty,
  
  Bedecked with thee,
  
  Nature forswears
  
  Antiquity.",277,,pink small and punctual aromatic low covert in april candid in may dear to the moss known by the knoll next to the robin in every human soul bold little beauty bedecked with thee nature forswears antiquity,205
  The murmur of a bee,"  The murmur of a bee
  
  A witchcraft yieldeth me.
  
  If any ask me why,
  
  'T were easier to die
  
  Than tell.
  

  The red upon the hill
  
  Taketh away my will;
  
  If anybody sneer,
  
  Take care, for God is here,
  
  That's all.
  

  The breaking of the day
  
  Addeth to my degree;
  
  If any ask me how,
  
  Artist, who drew me so,
  
  Must tell!",371,,the murmur of a bee a witchcraft yieldeth me if any ask me why t were easier to die than tell the red upon the hill taketh away my will if anybody sneer take care for god is here thats all the breaking of the day addeth to my degree if any ask me how artist who drew me so must tell,282
  Perhaps you'd like to buy a flower?,"  Perhaps you'd like to buy a flower?
  
  But I could never sell.
  
  If you would like to borrow
  
  Until the daffodil
  

  Unties her yellow bonnet
  
  Beneath the village door,
  
  Until the bees, from clover rows
  
  Their hock and sherry draw,
  

  Why, I will lend until just then,
  
  But not an hour more!",323,,perhaps youd like to buy a flower but i could never sell if you would like to borrow until the daffodil unties her yellow bonnet beneath the village door until the bees from clover rows their hock and sherry draw why i will lend until just then but not an hour more,265
  The pedigree of honey,"  The pedigree of honey
  
  Does not concern the bee;
  
  A clover, any time, to him
  
  Is aristocracy.",107,,the pedigree of honey does not concern the bee a clover any time to him is aristocracy,86
  Some keep the Sabbath going to church;,"  Some keep the Sabbath going to church;
  
  I keep it staying at home,
  
  With a bobolink for a chorister,
  
  And an orchard for a dome.
  

  Some keep the Sabbath in surplice;
  
  I just wear my wings,
  
  And instead of tolling the bell for church,
  
  Our little sexton sings.
  

  God preaches, — a noted clergyman, —
  
  And the sermon is never long;
  
  So instead of getting to heaven at last,
  
  I'm going all along!",439,,some keep the sabbath going to church i keep it staying at home with a bobolink for a chorister and an orchard for a dome some keep the sabbath in surplice i just wear my wings and instead of tolling the bell for church our little sexton sings god preaches a noted clergyman and the sermon is never long so instead of getting to heaven at last im going all along,362
"  The bee is not afraid of me,","  The bee is not afraid of me,
  
  I know the butterfly;
  
  The pretty people in the woods
  
  Receive me cordially.
  

  The brooks laugh louder when I come,
  
  The breezes madder play.
  
  Wherefore, mine eyes, thy silver mists?
  
  Wherefore, O summer's day?",270,,the bee is not afraid of me i know the butterfly the pretty people in the woods receive me cordially the brooks laugh louder when i come the breezes madder play wherefore mine eyes thy silver mists wherefore o summers day,221
  Some rainbow coming from the fair!,"  Some rainbow coming from the fair!
  
  Some vision of the world Cashmere
  
  I confidently see!
  
  Or else a peacock's purple train,
  
  Feather by feather, on the plain
  
  Fritters itself away!
  

  The dreamy butterflies bestir,
  
  Lethargic pools resume the whir
  
  Of last year's sundered tune.
  
  From some old fortress on the sun
  
  Baronial bees march, one by one,
  
  In murmuring platoon!
  

  The robins stand as thick to-day
  
  As flakes of snow stood yesterday,
  
  On fence and roof and twig.
  
  The orchis binds her feather on
  
  For her old lover, Don the Sun,
  
  Revisiting the bog!
  

  Without commander, countless, still,
  
  The regiment of wood and hill
  
  In bright detachment stand.
  
  Behold! Whose multitudes are these?
  
  The children of whose turbaned seas,
  
  Or what Circassian land?",851,,some rainbow coming from the fair some vision of the world cashmere i confidently see or else a peacocks purple train feather by feather on the plain fritters itself away the dreamy butterflies bestir lethargic pools resume the whir of last years sundered tune from some old fortress on the sun baronial bees march one by one in murmuring platoon the robins stand as thick today as flakes of snow stood yesterday on fence and roof and twig the orchis binds her feather on for her old lover don the sun revisiting the bog without commander countless still the regiment of wood and hill in bright detachment stand behold whose multitudes are these the children of whose turbaned seas or what circassian land,705
"  The grass so little has to do, —","  The grass so little has to do, —
  
  A sphere of simple green,
  
  With only butterflies to brood,
  
  And bees to entertain,
  

  And stir all day to pretty tunes
  
  The breezes fetch along,
  
  And hold the sunshine in its lap
  
  And bow to everything;
  

  And thread the dews all night, like pearls,
  
  And make itself so fine, —
  
  A duchess were too common
  
  For such a noticing.
  

  And even when it dies, to pass
  
  In odors so divine,
  
  As lowly spices gone to sleep,
  
  Or amulets of pine.
  

  And then to dwell in sovereign barns,
  
  And dream the days away, —
  
  The grass so little has to do,
  
  I wish I were the hay!",667,,the grass so little has to do a sphere of simple green with only butterflies to brood and bees to entertain and stir all day to pretty tunes the breezes fetch along and hold the sunshine in its lap and bow to everything and thread the dews all night like pearls and make itself so fine a duchess were too common for such a noticing and even when it dies to pass in odors so divine as lowly spices gone to sleep or amulets of pine and then to dwell in sovereign barns and dream the days away the grass so little has to do i wish i were the hay,542
"  A little road not made of man,","  A little road not made of man,
  
  Enabled of the eye,
  
  Accessible to thill of bee,
  
  Or cart of butterfly.
  

  If town it have, beyond itself,
  
  'T is that I cannot say;
  
  I only sigh, — no vehicle
  
  Bears me along that way.",246,,a little road not made of man enabled of the eye accessible to thill of bee or cart of butterfly if town it have beyond itself t is that i cannot say i only sigh no vehicle bears me along that way,196
"  A drop fell on the apple tree,","  A drop fell on the apple tree,
  
  Another on the roof;
  
  A half a dozen kissed the eaves,
  
  And made the gables laugh.
  

  A few went out to help the brook,
  
  That went to help the sea.
  
  Myself conjectured, Were they pearls,
  
  What necklaces could be!
  

  The dust replaced in hoisted roads,
  
  The birds jocoser sung;
  
  The sunshine threw his hat away,
  
  The orchards spangles hung.
  

  The breezes brought dejected lutes,
  
  And bathed them in the glee;
  
  The East put out a single flag,
  
  And signed the fete away.",559,,a drop fell on the apple tree another on the roof a half a dozen kissed the eaves and made the gables laugh a few went out to help the brook that went to help the sea myself conjectured were they pearls what necklaces could be the dust replaced in hoisted roads the birds jocoser sung the sunshine threw his hat away the orchards spangles hung the breezes brought dejected lutes and bathed them in the glee the east put out a single flag and signed the fete away,462
"  A something in a summer's day,","  A something in a summer's day,
  
  As slow her flambeaux burn away,
  
  Which solemnizes me.
  

  A something in a summer's noon, —
  
  An azure depth, a wordless tune,
  
  Transcending ecstasy.
  

  And still within a summer's night
  
  A something so transporting bright,
  
  I clap my hands to see;
  

  Then veil my too inspecting face,
  
  Lest such a subtle, shimmering grace
  
  Flutter too far for me.
  

  The wizard-fingers never rest,
  
  The purple brook within the breast
  
  Still chafes its narrow bed;
  

  Still rears the East her amber flag,
  
  Guides still the sun along the crag
  
  His caravan of red,
  

  Like flowers that heard the tale of dews,
  
  But never deemed the dripping prize
  
  Awaited their low brows;
  

  Or bees, that thought the summer's name
  
  Some rumor of delirium
  
  No summer could for them;
  

  Or Arctic creature, dimly stirred
  
  By tropic hint, — some travelled bird
  
  Imported to the wood;
  

  Or wind's bright signal to the ear,
  
  Making that homely and severe,
  
  Contented, known, before
  

  The heaven unexpected came,
  
  To lives that thought their worshipping
  
  A too presumptuous psalm.",1194,,a something in a summers day as slow her flambeaux burn away which solemnizes me a something in a summers noon an azure depth a wordless tune transcending ecstasy and still within a summers night a something so transporting bright i clap my hands to see then veil my too inspecting face lest such a subtle shimmering grace flutter too far for me the wizardfingers never rest the purple brook within the breast still chafes its narrow bed still rears the east her amber flag guides still the sun along the crag his caravan of red like flowers that heard the tale of dews but never deemed the dripping prize awaited their low brows or bees that thought the summers name some rumor of delirium no summer could for them or arctic creature dimly stirred by tropic hint some travelled bird imported to the wood or winds bright signal to the ear making that homely and severe contented known before the heaven unexpected came to lives that thought their worshipping a too presumptuous psalm,983
"  This is the land the sunset washes,","  This is the land the sunset washes,
  
  These are the banks of the Yellow Sea;
  
  Where it rose, or whither it rushes,
  
  These are the western mystery!
  

  Night after night her purple traffic
  
  Strews the landing with opal bales;
  
  Merchantmen poise upon horizons,
  
  Dip, and vanish with fairy sails.",320,,this is the land the sunset washes these are the banks of the yellow sea where it rose or whither it rushes these are the western mystery night after night her purple traffic strews the landing with opal bales merchantmen poise upon horizons dip and vanish with fairy sails,273
"  There is a flower that bees prefer,","  There is a flower that bees prefer,
  
  And butterflies desire;
  
  To gain the purple democrat
  
  The humming-birds aspire.
  

  And whatsoever insect pass,
  
  A honey bears away
  
  Proportioned to his several dearth
  
  And her capacity.
  

  Her face is rounder than the moon,
  
  And ruddier than the gown
  
  Of orchis in the pasture,
  
  Or rhododendron worn.
  

  She doth not wait for June;
  
  Before the world is green
  
  Her sturdy little countenance
  
  Against the wind is seen,
  

  Contending with the grass,
  
  Near kinsman to herself,
  
  For privilege of sod and sun,
  
  Sweet litigants for life.
  

  And when the hills are full,
  
  And newer fashions blow,
  
  Doth not retract a single spice
  
  For pang of jealousy.
  

  Her public is the noon,
  
  Her providence the sun,
  
  Her progress by the bee proclaimed
  
  In sovereign, swerveless tune.
  

  The bravest of the host,
  
  Surrendering the last,
  
  Nor even of defeat aware
  
  When cancelled by the frost.",1028,,there is a flower that bees prefer and butterflies desire to gain the purple democrat the hummingbirds aspire and whatsoever insect pass a honey bears away proportioned to his several dearth and her capacity her face is rounder than the moon and ruddier than the gown of orchis in the pasture or rhododendron worn she doth not wait for june before the world is green her sturdy little countenance against the wind is seen contending with the grass near kinsman to herself for privilege of sod and sun sweet litigants for life and when the hills are full and newer fashions blow doth not retract a single spice for pang of jealousy her public is the noon her providence the sun her progress by the bee proclaimed in sovereign swerveless tune the bravest of the host surrendering the last nor even of defeat aware when cancelled by the frost,839
  Like trains of cars on tracks of plush,"  Like trains of cars on tracks of plush
  
  I hear the level bee:
  
  A jar across the flowers goes,
  
  Their velvet masonry
  

  Withstands until the sweet assault
  
  Their chivalry consumes,
  
  While he, victorious, tilts away
  
  To vanquish other blooms.
  

  His feet are shod with gauze,
  
  His helmet is of gold;
  
  His breast, a single onyx
  
  With chrysoprase, inlaid.
  

  His labor is a chant,
  
  His idleness a tune;
  
  Oh, for a bee's experience
  
  Of clovers and of noon!",510,,like trains of cars on tracks of plush i hear the level bee a jar across the flowers goes their velvet masonry withstands until the sweet assault their chivalry consumes while he victorious tilts away to vanquish other blooms his feet are shod with gauze his helmet is of gold his breast a single onyx with chrysoprase inlaid his labor is a chant his idleness a tune oh for a bees experience of clovers and of noon,414
  Presentiment is that long shadow on the lawn,"  Presentiment is that long shadow on the lawn
  
  Indicative that suns go down;
  
  The notice to the startled grass
  
  That darkness is about to pass.",156,,presentiment is that long shadow on the lawn indicative that suns go down the notice to the startled grass that darkness is about to pass,137
"  As children bid the guest good-night,","  As children bid the guest good-night,
  
  And then reluctant turn,
  
  My flowers raise their pretty lips,
  
  Then put their nightgowns on.
  

  As children caper when they wake,
  
  Merry that it is morn,
  
  My flowers from a hundred cribs
  
  Will peep, and prance again.",284,,as children bid the guest goodnight and then reluctant turn my flowers raise their pretty lips then put their nightgowns on as children caper when they wake merry that it is morn my flowers from a hundred cribs will peep and prance again,237
  Angels in the early morning,"  Angels in the early morning
  
  May be seen the dews among,
  
  Stooping, plucking, smiling, flying:
  
  Do the buds to them belong?
  

  Angels when the sun is hottest
  
  May be seen the sands among,
  
  Stooping, plucking, sighing, flying;
  
  Parched the flowers they bear along.",292,,angels in the early morning may be seen the dews among stooping plucking smiling flying do the buds to them belong angels when the sun is hottest may be seen the sands among stooping plucking sighing flying parched the flowers they bear along,242
"  So bashful when I spied her,","  So bashful when I spied her,
  
  So pretty, so ashamed!
  
  So hidden in her leaflets,
  
  Lest anybody find;
  

  So breathless till I passed her,
  
  So helpless when I turned
  
  And bore her, struggling, blushing,
  
  Her simple haunts beyond!
  

  For whom I robbed the dingle,
  
  For whom betrayed the dell,
  
  Many will doubtless ask me,
  
  But I shall never tell!",387,,so bashful when i spied her so pretty so ashamed so hidden in her leaflets lest anybody find so breathless till i passed her so helpless when i turned and bore her struggling blushing her simple haunts beyond for whom i robbed the dingle for whom betrayed the dell many will doubtless ask me but i shall never tell,314
"  It makes no difference abroad,","  It makes no difference abroad,
  
  The seasons fit the same,
  
  The mornings blossom into noons,
  
  And split their pods of flame.
  

  Wild-flowers kindle in the woods,
  
  The brooks brag all the day;
  
  No blackbird bates his jargoning
  
  For passing Calvary.
  

  Auto-da-fe and judgment
  
  Are nothing to the bee;
  
  His separation from his rose
  
  To him seems misery.",394,,it makes no difference abroad the seasons fit the same the mornings blossom into noons and split their pods of flame wildflowers kindle in the woods the brooks brag all the day no blackbird bates his jargoning for passing calvary autodafe and judgment are nothing to the bee his separation from his rose to him seems misery,323
  The mountain sat upon the plain,"  The mountain sat upon the plain
  
  In his eternal chair,
  
  His observation omnifold,
  
  His inquest everywhere.
  

  The seasons prayed around his knees,
  
  Like children round a sire:
  
  Grandfather of the days is he,
  
  Of dawn the ancestor.",259,,the mountain sat upon the plain in his eternal chair his observation omnifold his inquest everywhere the seasons prayed around his knees like children round a sire grandfather of the days is he of dawn the ancestor,214
"  I'll tell you how the sun rose, —","  I'll tell you how the sun rose, —
  
  A ribbon at a time.
  
  The steeples swam in amethyst,
  
  The news like squirrels ran.
  

  The hills untied their bonnets,
  
  The bobolinks begun.
  
  Then I said softly to myself,
  
  ""That must have been the sun!""
  

  *  *  *
  

  But how he set, I know not.
  
  There seemed a purple stile
  
  Which little yellow boys and girls
  
  Were climbing all the while
  

  Till when they reached the other side,
  
  A dominie in gray
  
  Put gently up the evening bars,
  
  And led the flock away.",553,,ill tell you how the sun rose a ribbon at a time the steeples swam in amethyst the news like squirrels ran the hills untied their bonnets the bobolinks begun then i said softly to myself that must have been the sun but how he set i know not there seemed a purple stile which little yellow boys and girls were climbing all the while till when they reached the other side a dominie in gray put gently up the evening bars and led the flock away,441
"  The butterfly's assumption-gown,","  The butterfly's assumption-gown,
  
  In chrysoprase apartments hung,
  
  This afternoon put on.
  

  How condescending to descend,
  
  And be of buttercups the friend
  
  In a New England town!",200,,the butterflys assumptiongown in chrysoprase apartments hung this afternoon put on how condescending to descend and be of buttercups the friend in a new england town,165
"  Of all the sounds despatched abroad,","  Of all the sounds despatched abroad,
  
  There's not a charge to me
  
  Like that old measure in the boughs,
  
  That phraseless melody
  

  The wind does, working like a hand
  
  Whose fingers brush the sky,
  
  Then quiver down, with tufts of tune
  
  Permitted gods and me.
  

  When winds go round and round in bands,
  
  And thrum upon the door,
  
  And birds take places overhead,
  
  To bear them orchestra,
  

  I crave him grace, of summer boughs,
  
  If such an outcast be,
  
  He never heard that fleshless chant
  
  Rise solemn in the tree,
  

  As if some caravan of sound
  
  On deserts, in the sky,
  
  Had broken rank,
  
  Then knit, and passed
  
  In seamless company.",707,,of all the sounds despatched abroad theres not a charge to me like that old measure in the boughs that phraseless melody the wind does working like a hand whose fingers brush the sky then quiver down with tufts of tune permitted gods and me when winds go round and round in bands and thrum upon the door and birds take places overhead to bear them orchestra i crave him grace of summer boughs if such an outcast be he never heard that fleshless chant rise solemn in the tree as if some caravan of sound on deserts in the sky had broken rank then knit and passed in seamless company,581
  Apparently with no surprise,"  Apparently with no surprise
  
  To any happy flower,
  
  The frost beheads it at its play
  
  In accidental power.
  
  The blond assassin passes on,
  
  The sun proceeds unmoved
  
  To measure off another day
  
  For an approving God.",243,,apparently with no surprise to any happy flower the frost beheads it at its play in accidental power the blond assassin passes on the sun proceeds unmoved to measure off another day for an approving god,202
  'T was later when the summer went,"  'T was later when the summer went
  
  Than when the cricket came,
  
  And yet we knew that gentle clock
  
  Meant nought but going home.
  

  'T was sooner when the cricket went
  
  Than when the winter came,
  
  Yet that pathetic pendulum
  
  Keeps esoteric time.",273,,t was later when the summer went than when the cricket came and yet we knew that gentle clock meant nought but going home t was sooner when the cricket went than when the winter came yet that pathetic pendulum keeps esoteric time,229
"  These are the days when birds come back,","  These are the days when birds come back,
  
  A very few, a bird or two,
  
  To take a backward look.
  

  These are the days when skies put on
  
  The old, old sophistries of June, —
  
  A blue and gold mistake.
  

  Oh, fraud that cannot cheat the bee,
  
  Almost thy plausibility
  
  Induces my belief,
  

  Till ranks of seeds their witness bear,
  
  And softly through the altered air
  
  Hurries a timid leaf!
  

  Oh, sacrament of summer days,
  
  Oh, last communion in the haze,
  
  Permit a child to join,
  

  Thy sacred emblems to partake,
  
  Thy consecrated bread to break,
  
  Taste thine immortal wine!",635,,these are the days when birds come back a very few a bird or two to take a backward look these are the days when skies put on the old old sophistries of june a blue and gold mistake oh fraud that cannot cheat the bee almost thy plausibility induces my belief till ranks of seeds their witness bear and softly through the altered air hurries a timid leaf oh sacrament of summer days oh last communion in the haze permit a child to join thy sacred emblems to partake thy consecrated bread to break taste thine immortal wine,521
"  The morns are meeker than they were,","  The morns are meeker than they were,
  
  The nuts are getting brown;
  
  The berry's cheek is plumper,
  
  The rose is out of town.
  

  The maple wears a gayer scarf,
  
  The field a scarlet gown.
  
  Lest I should be old-fashioned,
  
  I'll put a trinket on.",269,,the morns are meeker than they were the nuts are getting brown the berrys cheek is plumper the rose is out of town the maple wears a gayer scarf the field a scarlet gown lest i should be oldfashioned ill put a trinket on,220
"  The sky is low, the clouds are mean,","  The sky is low, the clouds are mean,
  
  A travelling flake of snow
  
  Across a barn or through a rut
  
  Debates if it will go.
  

  A narrow wind complains all day
  
  How some one treated him;
  
  Nature, like us, is sometimes caught
  
  Without her diadem.",270,,the sky is low the clouds are mean a travelling flake of snow across a barn or through a rut debates if it will go a narrow wind complains all day how some one treated him nature like us is sometimes caught without her diadem,225
  I think the hemlock likes to stand,"  I think the hemlock likes to stand
  
  Upon a marge of snow;
  
  It suits his own austerity,
  
  And satisfies an awe
  

  That men must slake in wilderness,
  
  Or in the desert cloy, —
  
  An instinct for the hoar, the bald,
  
  Lapland's necessity.
  

  The hemlock's nature thrives on cold;
  
  The gnash of northern winds
  
  Is sweetest nutriment to him,
  
  His best Norwegian wines.
  

  To satin races he is nought;
  
  But children on the Don
  
  Beneath his tabernacles play,
  
  And Dnieper wrestlers run.",534,,i think the hemlock likes to stand upon a marge of snow it suits his own austerity and satisfies an awe that men must slake in wilderness or in the desert cloy an instinct for the hoar the bald laplands necessity the hemlocks nature thrives on cold the gnash of northern winds is sweetest nutriment to him his best norwegian wines to satin races he is nought but children on the don beneath his tabernacles play and dnieper wrestlers run,437
"  There's a certain slant of light,","  There's a certain slant of light,
  
  On winter afternoons,
  
  That oppresses, like the weight
  
  Of cathedral tunes.
  

  Heavenly hurt it gives us;
  
  We can find no scar,
  
  But internal difference
  
  Where the meanings are.
  

  None may teach it anything,
  
  'T is the seal, despair, —
  
  An imperial affliction
  
  Sent us of the air.
  

  When it comes, the landscape listens,
  
  Shadows hold their breath;
  
  When it goes, 't is like the distance
  
  On the look of death.",506,,theres a certain slant of light on winter afternoons that oppresses like the weight of cathedral tunes heavenly hurt it gives us we can find no scar but internal difference where the meanings are none may teach it anything t is the seal despair an imperial affliction sent us of the air when it comes the landscape listens shadows hold their breath when it goes t is like the distance on the look of death,405
"  One dignity delays for all,","  One dignity delays for all,
  
  One mitred afternoon.
  
  None can avoid this purple,
  
  None evade this crown.
  

  Coach it insures, and footmen,
  
  Chamber and state and throng;
  
  Bells, also, in the village,
  
  As we ride grand along.
  

  What dignified attendants,
  
  What service when we pause!
  
  How loyally at parting
  
  Their hundred hats they raise!
  

  How pomp surpassing ermine,
  
  When simple you and I
  
  Present our meek escutcheon,
  
  And claim the rank to die!",509,,one dignity delays for all one mitred afternoon none can avoid this purple none evade this crown coach it insures and footmen chamber and state and throng bells also in the village as we ride grand along what dignified attendants what service when we pause how loyally at parting their hundred hats they raise how pomp surpassing ermine when simple you and i present our meek escutcheon and claim the rank to die,412
"  Delayed till she had ceased to know,","  Delayed till she had ceased to know,
  
  Delayed till in its vest of snow
  
  Her loving bosom lay.
  
  An hour behind the fleeting breath,
  
  Later by just an hour than death, —
  
  Oh, lagging yesterday!
  

  Could she have guessed that it would be;
  
  Could but a crier of the glee
  
  Have climbed the distant hill;
  
  Had not the bliss so slow a pace, —
  
  Who knows but this surrendered face
  
  Were undefeated still?
  

  Oh, if there may departing be
  
  Any forgot by victory
  
  In her imperial round,
  
  Show them this meek apparelled thing,
  
  That could not stop to be a king,
  
  Doubtful if it be crowned!",646,,delayed till she had ceased to know delayed till in its vest of snow her loving bosom lay an hour behind the fleeting breath later by just an hour than death oh lagging yesterday could she have guessed that it would be could but a crier of the glee have climbed the distant hill had not the bliss so slow a pace who knows but this surrendered face were undefeated still oh if there may departing be any forgot by victory in her imperial round show them this meek apparelled thing that could not stop to be a king doubtful if it be crowned,538
"  Departed to the judgment,","  Departed to the judgment,
  
  A mighty afternoon;
  
  Great clouds like ushers leaning,
  
  Creation looking on.
  

  The flesh surrendered, cancelled,
  
  The bodiless begun;
  
  Two worlds, like audiences, disperse
  
  And leave the soul alone.",255,,departed to the judgment a mighty afternoon great clouds like ushers leaning creation looking on the flesh surrendered cancelled the bodiless begun two worlds like audiences disperse and leave the soul alone,207
"  Safe in their alabaster chambers,","  Safe in their alabaster chambers,
  
  Untouched by morning and untouched by noon,
  
  Sleep the meek members of the resurrection,
  
  Rafter of satin, and roof of stone.
  

  Light laughs the breeze in her castle of sunshine;
  
  Babbles the bee in a stolid ear;
  
  Pipe the sweet birds in ignorant cadence, —
  
  Ah, what sagacity perished here!
  

  Grand go the years in the crescent above them;
  
  Worlds scoop their arcs, and firmaments row,
  
  Diadems drop and Doges surrender,
  
  Soundless as dots on a disk of snow.",540,,safe in their alabaster chambers untouched by morning and untouched by noon sleep the meek members of the resurrection rafter of satin and roof of stone light laughs the breeze in her castle of sunshine babbles the bee in a stolid ear pipe the sweet birds in ignorant cadence ah what sagacity perished here grand go the years in the crescent above them worlds scoop their arcs and firmaments row diadems drop and doges surrender soundless as dots on a disk of snow,464
"  On this long storm the rainbow rose,","  On this long storm the rainbow rose,
  
  On this late morn the sun;
  
  The clouds, like listless elephants,
  
  Horizons straggled down.
  

  The birds rose smiling in their nests,
  
  The gales indeed were done;
  
  Alas! how heedless were the eyes
  
  On whom the summer shone!
  

  The quiet nonchalance of death
  
  No daybreak can bestir;
  
  The slow archangel's syllables
  
  Must awaken her.",413,,on this long storm the rainbow rose on this late morn the sun the clouds like listless elephants horizons straggled down the birds rose smiling in their nests the gales indeed were done alas how heedless were the eyes on whom the summer shone the quiet nonchalance of death no daybreak can bestir the slow archangels syllables must awaken her,342
"  My cocoon tightens, colors tease,","  My cocoon tightens, colors tease,
  
  I'm feeling for the air;
  
  A dim capacity for wings
  
  Degrades the dress I wear.
  

  A power of butterfly must be
  
  The aptitude to fly,
  
  Meadows of majesty concedes
  
  And easy sweeps of sky.
  

  So I must baffle at the hint
  
  And cipher at the sign,
  
  And make much blunder, if at last
  
  I take the clew divine.",382,,my cocoon tightens colors tease im feeling for the air a dim capacity for wings degrades the dress i wear a power of butterfly must be the aptitude to fly meadows of majesty concedes and easy sweeps of sky so i must baffle at the hint and cipher at the sign and make much blunder if at last i take the clew divine,313
  Exultation is the going,"  Exultation is the going
  
  Of an inland soul to sea, —
  
  Past the houses, past the headlands,
  
  Into deep eternity!
  

  Bred as we, among the mountains,
  
  Can the sailor understand
  
  The divine intoxication
  
  Of the first league out from land?",264,,exultation is the going of an inland soul to sea past the houses past the headlands into deep eternity bred as we among the mountains can the sailor understand the divine intoxication of the first league out from land,217
"  Look back on time with kindly eyes,","  Look back on time with kindly eyes,
  
  He doubtless did his best;
  
  How softly sinks his trembling sun
  
  In human nature's west!",138,,look back on time with kindly eyes he doubtless did his best how softly sinks his trembling sun in human natures west,117
"  A train went through a burial gate,","  A train went through a burial gate,
  
  A bird broke forth and sang,
  
  And trilled, and quivered, and shook his throat
  
  Till all the churchyard rang;
  

  And then adjusted his little notes,
  
  And bowed and sang again.
  
  Doubtless, he thought it meet of him
  
  To say good-by to men.",302,,a train went through a burial gate a bird broke forth and sang and trilled and quivered and shook his throat till all the churchyard rang and then adjusted his little notes and bowed and sang again doubtless he thought it meet of him to say goodby to men,254
"  I died for beauty, but was scarce","  I died for beauty, but was scarce
  
  Adjusted in the tomb,
  
  When one who died for truth was lain
  
  In an adjoining room.
  

  He questioned softly why I failed?
  
  ""For beauty,"" I replied.
  
  ""And I for truth, — the two are one;
  
  We brethren are,"" he said.
  

  And so, as kinsmen met a night,
  
  We talked between the rooms,
  
  Until the moss had reached our lips,
  
  And covered up our names.",421,,i died for beauty but was scarce adjusted in the tomb when one who died for truth was lain in an adjoining room he questioned softly why i failed for beauty i replied and i for truth the two are one we brethren are he said and so as kinsmen met a night we talked between the rooms until the moss had reached our lips and covered up our names,341
"  How many times these low feet staggered,","  How many times these low feet staggered,
  
  Only the soldered mouth can tell;
  
  Try! can you stir the awful rivet?
  
  Try! can you lift the hasps of steel?
  

  Stroke the cool forehead, hot so often,
  
  Lift, if you can, the listless hair;
  
  Handle the adamantine fingers
  
  Never a thimble more shall wear.
  

  Buzz the dull flies on the chamber window;
  
  Brave shines the sun through the freckled pane;
  
  Fearless the cobweb swings from the ceiling —
  
  Indolent housewife, in daisies lain!",520,,how many times these low feet staggered only the soldered mouth can tell try can you stir the awful rivet try can you lift the hasps of steel stroke the cool forehead hot so often lift if you can the listless hair handle the adamantine fingers never a thimble more shall wear buzz the dull flies on the chamber window brave shines the sun through the freckled pane fearless the cobweb swings from the ceiling indolent housewife in daisies lain,443
"  I like a look of agony,","  I like a look of agony,
  
  Because I know it 's true;
  
  Men do not sham convulsion,
  
  Nor simulate a throe.
  

  The eyes glaze once, and that is death.
  
  Impossible to feign
  
  The beads upon the forehead
  
  By homely anguish strung.",252,,i like a look of agony because i know it s true men do not sham convulsion nor simulate a throe the eyes glaze once and that is death impossible to feign the beads upon the forehead by homely anguish strung,206
"  That short, potential stir","  That short, potential stir
  
  That each can make but once,
  
  That bustle so illustrious
  
  'T is almost consequence,
  

  Is the eclat of death.
  
  Oh, thou unknown renown
  
  That not a beggar would accept,
  
  Had he the power to spurn!",252,,that short potential stir that each can make but once that bustle so illustrious t is almost consequence is the eclat of death oh thou unknown renown that not a beggar would accept had he the power to spurn,206
"  I went to thank her,","  I went to thank her,
  
  But she slept;
  
  Her bed a funnelled stone,
  
  With nosegays at the head and foot,
  
  That travellers had thrown,
  

  Who went to thank her;
  
  But she slept.
  
  'T was short to cross the sea
  
  To look upon her like, alive,
  
  But turning back 't was slow.",302,,i went to thank her but she slept her bed a funnelled stone with nosegays at the head and foot that travellers had thrown who went to thank her but she slept t was short to cross the sea to look upon her like alive but turning back t was slow,242
  I've seen a dying eye,"  I've seen a dying eye
  
  Run round and round a room
  
  In search of something, as it seemed,
  
  Then cloudier become;
  
  And then, obscure with fog,
  
  And then be soldered down,
  
  Without disclosing what it be,
  
  'T were blessed to have seen.",261,,ive seen a dying eye run round and round a room in search of something as it seemed then cloudier become and then obscure with fog and then be soldered down without disclosing what it be t were blessed to have seen,214
"  The clouds their backs together laid,","  The clouds their backs together laid,
  
  The north begun to push,
  
  The forests galloped till they fell,
  
  The lightning skipped like mice;
  
  The thunder crumbled like a stuff —
  
  How good to be safe in tombs,
  
  Where nature's temper cannot reach,
  
  Nor vengeance ever comes!",297,,the clouds their backs together laid the north begun to push the forests galloped till they fell the lightning skipped like mice the thunder crumbled like a stuff how good to be safe in tombs where natures temper cannot reach nor vengeance ever comes,250
"  I never saw a moor,","  I never saw a moor,
  
  I never saw the sea;
  
  Yet know I how the heather looks,
  
  And what a wave must be.
  

  I never spoke with God,
  
  Nor visited in heaven;
  
  Yet certain am I of the spot
  
  As if the chart were given.",241,,i never saw a moor i never saw the sea yet know i how the heather looks and what a wave must be i never spoke with god nor visited in heaven yet certain am i of the spot as if the chart were given,196
  God permits industrious angels,"  God permits industrious angels
  
  Afternoons to play.
  
  I met one, — forgot my school-mates,
  
  All, for him, straightway.
  

  God calls home the angels promptly
  
  At the setting sun;
  
  I missed mine. How dreary marbles,
  
  After playing Crown!",263,,god permits industrious angels afternoons to play i met one forgot my schoolmates all for him straightway god calls home the angels promptly at the setting sun i missed mine how dreary marbles after playing crown,212
  To know just how he suffered would be dear;,"  To know just how he suffered would be dear;
  
  To know if any human eyes were near
  
  To whom he could intrust his wavering gaze,
  
  Until it settled firm on Paradise.
  

  To know if he was patient, part content,
  
  Was dying as he thought, or different;
  
  Was it a pleasant day to die,
  
  And did the sunshine face his way?
  

  What was his furthest mind, of home, or God,
  
  Or what the distant say
  
  At news that he ceased human nature
  
  On such a day?
  

  And wishes, had he any?
  
  Just his sigh, accented,
  
  Had been legible to me.
  
  And was he confident until
  
  Ill fluttered out in everlasting well?
  

  And if he spoke, what name was best,
  
  What first,
  
  What one broke off with
  
  At the drowsiest?
  

  Was he afraid, or tranquil?
  
  Might he know
  
  How conscious consciousness could grow,
  
  Till love that was, and love too blest to be,
  
  Meet — and the junction be Eternity?",950,,to know just how he suffered would be dear to know if any human eyes were near to whom he could intrust his wavering gaze until it settled firm on paradise to know if he was patient part content was dying as he thought or different was it a pleasant day to die and did the sunshine face his way what was his furthest mind of home or god or what the distant say at news that he ceased human nature on such a day and wishes had he any just his sigh accented had been legible to me and was he confident until ill fluttered out in everlasting well and if he spoke what name was best what first what one broke off with at the drowsiest was he afraid or tranquil might he know how conscious consciousness could grow till love that was and love too blest to be meet and the junction be eternity,787
"  The last night that she lived,","  The last night that she lived,
  
  It was a common night,
  
  Except the dying; this to us
  
  Made nature different.
  

  We noticed smallest things, —
  
  Things overlooked before,
  
  By this great light upon our minds
  
  Italicized, as 't were.
  

  That others could exist
  
  While she must finish quite,
  
  A jealousy for her arose
  
  So nearly infinite.
  

  We waited while she passed;
  
  It was a narrow time,
  
  Too jostled were our souls to speak,
  
  At length the notice came.
  

  She mentioned, and forgot;
  
  Then lightly as a reed
  
  Bent to the water, shivered scarce,
  
  Consented, and was dead.
  

  And we, we placed the hair,
  
  And drew the head erect;
  
  And then an awful leisure was,
  
  Our faith to regulate.",772,,the last night that she lived it was a common night except the dying this to us made nature different we noticed smallest things things overlooked before by this great light upon our minds italicized as t were that others could exist while she must finish quite a jealousy for her arose so nearly infinite we waited while she passed it was a narrow time too jostled were our souls to speak at length the notice came she mentioned and forgot then lightly as a reed bent to the water shivered scarce consented and was dead and we we placed the hair and drew the head erect and then an awful leisure was our faith to regulate,622
  Not in this world to see his face,"  Not in this world to see his face
  
  Sounds long, until I read the place
  
  Where this is said to be
  
  But just the primer to a life
  
  Unopened, rare, upon the shelf,
  
  Clasped yet to him and me.
  

  And yet, my primer suits me so
  
  I would not choose a book to know
  
  Than that, be sweeter wise;
  
  Might some one else so learned be,
  
  And leave me just my A B C,
  
  Himself could have the skies.",427,,not in this world to see his face sounds long until i read the place where this is said to be but just the primer to a life unopened rare upon the shelf clasped yet to him and me and yet my primer suits me so i would not choose a book to know than that be sweeter wise might some one else so learned be and leave me just my a b c himself could have the skies,358
  The bustle in a house,"  The bustle in a house
  
  The morning after death
  
  Is solemnest of industries
  
  Enacted upon earth, —
  

  The sweeping up the heart,
  
  And putting love away
  
  We shall not want to use again
  
  Until eternity.",228,,the bustle in a house the morning after death is solemnest of industries enacted upon earth the sweeping up the heart and putting love away we shall not want to use again until eternity,185
"  I reason, earth is short,","  I reason, earth is short,
  
  And anguish absolute,
  
  And many hurt;
  
  But what of that?
  

  I reason, we could die:
  
  The best vitality
  
  Cannot excel decay;
  
  But what of that?
  

  I reason that in heaven
  
  Somehow, it will be even,
  
  Some new equation given;
  
  But what of that?",312,,i reason earth is short and anguish absolute and many hurt but what of that i reason we could die the best vitality cannot excel decay but what of that i reason that in heaven somehow it will be even some new equation given but what of that,240
  Afraid? Of whom am I afraid?,"  Afraid? Of whom am I afraid?
  
  Not death; for who is he?
  
  The porter of my father's lodge
  
  As much abasheth me.
  

  Of life? 'T were odd I fear a thing
  
  That comprehendeth me
  
  In one or more existences
  
  At Deity's decree.
  

  Of resurrection? Is the east
  
  Afraid to trust the morn
  
  With her fastidious forehead?
  
  As soon impeach my crown!",379,,afraid of whom am i afraid not death for who is he the porter of my fathers lodge as much abasheth me of life t were odd i fear a thing that comprehendeth me in one or more existences at deitys decree of resurrection is the east afraid to trust the morn with her fastidious forehead as soon impeach my crown,307
"  The sun kept setting, setting still;","  The sun kept setting, setting still;
  
  No hue of afternoon
  
  Upon the village I perceived, —
  
  From house to house 't was noon.
  

  The dusk kept dropping, dropping still;
  
  No dew upon the grass,
  
  But only on my forehead stopped,
  
  And wandered in my face.
  

  My feet kept drowsing, drowsing still,
  
  My fingers were awake;
  
  Yet why so little sound myself
  
  Unto my seeming make?
  

  How well I knew the light before!
  
  I could not see it now.
  
  'T is dying, I am doing; but
  
  I'm not afraid to know.",548,,the sun kept setting setting still no hue of afternoon upon the village i perceived from house to house t was noon the dusk kept dropping dropping still no dew upon the grass but only on my forehead stopped and wandered in my face my feet kept drowsing drowsing still my fingers were awake yet why so little sound myself unto my seeming make how well i knew the light before i could not see it now t is dying i am doing but im not afraid to know,445
  Two swimmers wrestled on the spar,"  Two swimmers wrestled on the spar
  
  Until the morning sun,
  
  When one turned smiling to the land.
  
  O God, the other one!
  

  The stray ships passing spied a face
  
  Upon the waters borne,
  
  With eyes in death still begging raised,
  
  And hands beseeching thrown.",283,,two swimmers wrestled on the spar until the morning sun when one turned smiling to the land o god the other one the stray ships passing spied a face upon the waters borne with eyes in death still begging raised and hands beseeching thrown,238
"  Because I could not stop for Death,","  Because I could not stop for Death,
  
  He kindly stopped for me;
  
  The carriage held but just ourselves
  
  And Immortality.
  

  We slowly drove, he knew no haste,
  
  And I had put away
  
  My labor, and my leisure too,
  
  For his civility.
  

  We passed the school where children played,
  
  Their lessons scarcely done;
  
  We passed the fields of gazing grain,
  
  We passed the setting sun.
  

  We paused before a house that seemed
  
  A swelling of the ground;
  
  The roof was scarcely visible,
  
  The cornice but a mound.
  

  Since then 't is centuries; but each
  
  Feels shorter than the day
  
  I first surmised the horses' heads
  
  Were toward eternity.",696,,because i could not stop for death he kindly stopped for me the carriage held but just ourselves and immortality we slowly drove he knew no haste and i had put away my labor and my leisure too for his civility we passed the school where children played their lessons scarcely done we passed the fields of gazing grain we passed the setting sun we paused before a house that seemed a swelling of the ground the roof was scarcely visible the cornice but a mound since then t is centuries but each feels shorter than the day i first surmised the horses heads were toward eternity,576
  She went as quiet as the dew,"  She went as quiet as the dew
  
  From a familiar flower.
  
  Not like the dew did she return
  
  At the accustomed hour!
  

  She dropt as softly as a star
  
  From out my summer's eve;
  
  Less skilful than Leverrier
  
  It's sorer to believe!",253,,she went as quiet as the dew from a familiar flower not like the dew did she return at the accustomed hour she dropt as softly as a star from out my summers eve less skilful than leverrier its sorer to believe,209
  At last to be identified!,"  At last to be identified!
  
  At last, the lamps upon thy side,
  
  The rest of life to see!
  
  Past midnight, past the morning star!
  
  Past sunrise! Ah! what leagues there are
  
  Between our feet and day!",216,,at last to be identified at last the lamps upon thy side the rest of life to see past midnight past the morning star past sunrise ah what leagues there are between our feet and day,180
"  Except to heaven, she is nought;","  Except to heaven, she is nought;
  
  Except for angels, lone;
  
  Except to some wide-wandering bee,
  
  A flower superfluous blown;
  

  Except for winds, provincial;
  
  Except by butterflies,
  
  Unnoticed as a single dew
  
  That on the acre lies.
  

  The smallest housewife in the grass,
  
  Yet take her from the lawn,
  
  And somebody has lost the face
  
  That made existence home!",403,,except to heaven she is nought except for angels lone except to some widewandering bee a flower superfluous blown except for winds provincial except by butterflies unnoticed as a single dew that on the acre lies the smallest housewife in the grass yet take her from the lawn and somebody has lost the face that made existence home,330
  Death is a dialogue between,"  Death is a dialogue between
  
  The spirit and the dust.
  
  ""Dissolve,"" says Death. The Spirit, ""Sir,
  
  I have another trust.""
  

  Death doubts it, argues from the ground.
  
  The Spirit turns away,
  
  Just laying off, for evidence,
  
  An overcoat of clay.",271,,death is a dialogue between the spirit and the dust dissolve says death the spirit sir i have another trust death doubts it argues from the ground the spirit turns away just laying off for evidence an overcoat of clay,217
"  It was too late for man,","  It was too late for man,
  
  But early yet for God;
  
  Creation impotent to help,
  
  But prayer remained our side.
  

  How excellent the heaven,
  
  When earth cannot be had;
  
  How hospitable, then, the face
  
  Of our old neighbor, God!",251,,it was too late for man but early yet for god creation impotent to help but prayer remained our side how excellent the heaven when earth cannot be had how hospitable then the face of our old neighbor god,203
"  When I was small, a woman died.","  When I was small, a woman died.
  
  To-day her only boy
  
  Went up from the Potomac,
  
  His face all victory,
  

  To look at her; how slowly
  
  The seasons must have turned
  
  Till bullets clipt an angle,
  
  And he passed quickly round!
  

  If pride shall be in Paradise
  
  I never can decide;
  
  Of their imperial conduct,
  
  No person testified.
  

  But proud in apparition,
  
  That woman and her boy
  
  Pass back and forth before my brain,
  
  As ever in the sky.",496,,when i was small a woman died today her only boy went up from the potomac his face all victory to look at her how slowly the seasons must have turned till bullets clipt an angle and he passed quickly round if pride shall be in paradise i never can decide of their imperial conduct no person testified but proud in apparition that woman and her boy pass back and forth before my brain as ever in the sky,402
"  The daisy follows soft the sun,","  The daisy follows soft the sun,
  
  And when his golden walk is done,
  
  Sits shyly at his feet.
  
  He, waking, finds the flower near.
  
  ""Wherefore, marauder, art thou here?""
  
  ""Because, sir, love is sweet!""
  

  We are the flower, Thou the sun!
  
  Forgive us, if as days decline,
  
  We nearer steal to Thee, —
  
  Enamoured of the parting west,
  
  The peace, the flight, the amethyst,
  
  Night's possibility!",432,,the daisy follows soft the sun and when his golden walk is done sits shyly at his feet he waking finds the flower near wherefore marauder art thou here because sir love is sweet we are the flower thou the sun forgive us if as days decline we nearer steal to thee enamoured of the parting west the peace the flight the amethyst nights possibility,345
"  No rack can torture me,","  No rack can torture me,
  
  My soul's at liberty
  
  Behind this mortal bone
  
  There knits a bolder one
  

  You cannot prick with saw,
  
  Nor rend with scymitar.
  
  Two bodies therefore be;
  
  Bind one, and one will flee.
  

  The eagle of his nest
  
  No easier divest
  
  And gain the sky,
  
  Than mayest thou,
  

  Except thyself may be
  
  Thine enemy;
  
  Captivity is consciousness,
  
  So's liberty.",430,,no rack can torture me my souls at liberty behind this mortal bone there knits a bolder one you cannot prick with saw nor rend with scymitar two bodies therefore be bind one and one will flee the eagle of his nest no easier divest and gain the sky than mayest thou except thyself may be thine enemy captivity is consciousness sos liberty,337
  I lost a world the other day.,"  I lost a world the other day.
  
  Has anybody found?
  
  You'll know it by the row of stars
  
  Around its forehead bound.
  

  A rich man might not notice it;
  
  Yet to my frugal eye
  
  Of more esteem than ducats.
  
  Oh, find it, sir, for me!",255,,i lost a world the other day has anybody found youll know it by the row of stars around its forehead bound a rich man might not notice it yet to my frugal eye of more esteem than ducats oh find it sir for me,207
  If I shouldn't be alive,"  If I shouldn't be alive
  
  When the robins come,
  
  Give the one in red cravat
  
  A memorial crumb.
  

  If I couldn't thank you,
  
  Being just asleep,
  
  You will know I'm trying
  
  With my granite lip!",218,,if i shouldnt be alive when the robins come give the one in red cravat a memorial crumb if i couldnt thank you being just asleep you will know im trying with my granite lip,172
"  Sleep is supposed to be,","  Sleep is supposed to be,
  
  By souls of sanity,
  
  The shutting of the eye.
  

  Sleep is the station grand
  
  Down which on either hand
  
  The hosts of witness stand!
  

  Morn is supposed to be,
  
  By people of degree,
  
  The breaking of the day.
  

  Morning has not occurred!
  
  That shall aurora be
  
  East of eternity;
  

  One with the banner gay,
  
  One in the red array, —
  
  That is the break of day.",436,,sleep is supposed to be by souls of sanity the shutting of the eye sleep is the station grand down which on either hand the hosts of witness stand morn is supposed to be by people of degree the breaking of the day morning has not occurred that shall aurora be east of eternity one with the banner gay one in the red array that is the break of day,346
"  I shall know why, when time is over,","  I shall know why, when time is over,
  
  And I have ceased to wonder why;
  
  Christ will explain each separate anguish
  
  In the fair schoolroom of the sky.
  

  He will tell me what Peter promised,
  
  And I, for wonder at his woe,
  
  I shall forget the drop of anguish
  
  That scalds me now, that scalds me now.",326,,i shall know why when time is over and i have ceased to wonder why christ will explain each separate anguish in the fair schoolroom of the sky he will tell me what peter promised and i for wonder at his woe i shall forget the drop of anguish that scalds me now that scalds me now,279
"I never lost as much but twice,","I never lost as much but twice,

And that was in the sod;

Twice have I stood a beggar

Before the door of God!


Angels, twice descending,

Reimbursed my store.

Burglar, banker, father,

I am poor once more!",209,,i never lost as much but twice and that was in the sod twice have i stood a beggar before the door of god angels twice descending reimbursed my store burglar banker father i am poor once more,191
My nosegays are for captives;,"My nosegays are for captives;
 
 Dim, long-expectant eyes,
 
 Fingers denied the plucking,
 
 Patient till paradise,
 

 To such, if they should whisper
 
 Of morning and the moor,
 
 They bear no other errand,
 
 And I, no other prayer.",237,,my nosegays are for captives dim longexpectant eyes fingers denied the plucking patient till paradise to such if they should whisper of morning and the moor they bear no other errand and i no other prayer,204
  I'm nobody!  Who are you?,"  I'm nobody!  Who are you?
  
  Are you nobody, too?
  
  Then there 's a pair of us — don't tell!
  
  They 'd banish us, you know.
  

  How dreary to be somebody!
  
  How public, like a frog
  
  To tell your name the livelong day
  
  To an admiring bog!",260,,im nobody who are you are you nobody too then there s a pair of us dont tell they d banish us you know how dreary to be somebody how public like a frog to tell your name the livelong day to an admiring bog,205
  I bring an unaccustomed wine,"  I bring an unaccustomed wine
  
  To lips long parching, next to mine,
  
  And summon them to drink.
  

  Crackling with fever, they essay;
  
  I turn my brimming eyes away,
  
  And come next hour to look.
  

  The hands still hug the tardy glass;
  
  The lips I would have cooled, alas!
  
  Are so superfluous cold,
  

  I would as soon attempt to warm
  
  The bosoms where the frost has lain
  
  Ages beneath the mould.
  

  Some other thirsty there may be
  
  To whom this would have pointed me
  
  Had it remained to speak.
  

  And so I always bear the cup
  
  If, haply, mine may be the drop
  
  Some pilgrim thirst to slake, —
  

  If, haply, any say to me,
  
  ""Unto the little, unto me,""
  
  When I at last awake.",743,,i bring an unaccustomed wine to lips long parching next to mine and summon them to drink crackling with fever they essay i turn my brimming eyes away and come next hour to look the hands still hug the tardy glass the lips i would have cooled alas are so superfluous cold i would as soon attempt to warm the bosoms where the frost has lain ages beneath the mould some other thirsty there may be to whom this would have pointed me had it remained to speak and so i always bear the cup if haply mine may be the drop some pilgrim thirst to slake if haply any say to me unto the little unto me when i at last awake,609
"  The nearest dream recedes, unrealized.","  The nearest dream recedes, unrealized.
  
  The heaven we chase
  
  Like the June bee
  
  Before the school-boy
  
  Invites the race;
  
  Stoops to an easy clover —
  
  Dips — evades — teases — deploys;
  
  Then to the royal clouds
  
  Lifts his light pinnace
  
  Heedless of the boy
  
  Staring, bewildered, at the mocking sky.
  

  Homesick for steadfast honey,
  
  Ah! the bee flies not
  
  That brews that rare variety.",437,,the nearest dream recedes unrealized the heaven we chase like the june bee before the schoolboy invites the race stoops to an easy clover dips evades teases deploys then to the royal clouds lifts his light pinnace heedless of the boy staring bewildered at the mocking sky homesick for steadfast honey ah the bee flies not that brews that rare variety,350
"  We play at paste,","  We play at paste,
  
  Till qualified for pearl,
  
  Then drop the paste,
  
  And deem ourself a fool.
  
  The shapes, though, were similar,
  
  And our new hands
  
  Learned gem-tactics
  
  Practising sands.",216,,we play at paste till qualified for pearl then drop the paste and deem ourself a fool the shapes though were similar and our new hands learned gemtactics practising sands,170
  I found the phrase to every thought,"  I found the phrase to every thought
  
  I ever had, but one;
  
  And that defies me, — as a hand
  
  Did try to chalk the sun
  

  To races nurtured in the dark; —
  
  How would your own begin?
  
  Can blaze be done in cochineal,
  
  Or noon in mazarin?",262,,i found the phrase to every thought i ever had but one and that defies me as a hand did try to chalk the sun to races nurtured in the dark how would your own begin can blaze be done in cochineal or noon in mazarin,213
  Hope is the thing with feathers,"  Hope is the thing with feathers
  
  That perches in the soul,
  
  And sings the tune without the words,
  
  And never stops at all,
  

  And sweetest in the gale is heard;
  
  And sore must be the storm
  
  That could abash the little bird
  
  That kept so many warm.
  

  I 've heard it in the chillest land,
  
  And on the strangest sea;
  
  Yet, never, in extremity,
  
  It asked a crumb of me.",410,,hope is the thing with feathers that perches in the soul and sings the tune without the words and never stops at all and sweetest in the gale is heard and sore must be the storm that could abash the little bird that kept so many warm i ve heard it in the chillest land and on the strangest sea yet never in extremity it asked a crumb of me,339
  Dare you see a soul at the white heat?,"  Dare you see a soul at the white heat?
  
  Then crouch within the door.
  
  Red is the fire's common tint;
  
  But when the vivid ore
  

  Has sated flame's conditions,
  
  Its quivering substance plays
  
  Without a color but the light
  
  Of unanointed blaze.
  

  Least village boasts its blacksmith,
  
  Whose anvil's even din
  
  Stands symbol for the finer forge
  
  That soundless tugs within,
  

  Refining these impatient ores
  
  With hammer and with blaze,
  
  Until the designated light
  
  Repudiate the forge.",540,,dare you see a soul at the white heat then crouch within the door red is the fires common tint but when the vivid ore has sated flames conditions its quivering substance plays without a color but the light of unanointed blaze least village boasts its blacksmith whose anvils even din stands symbol for the finer forge that soundless tugs within refining these impatient ores with hammer and with blaze until the designated light repudiate the forge,448
"  Who never lost, are unprepared","  Who never lost, are unprepared
  
  A coronet to find;
  
  Who never thirsted, flagons
  
  And cooling tamarind.
  

  Who never climbed the weary league —
  
  Can such a foot explore
  
  The purple territories
  
  On Pizarro's shore?
  

  How many legions overcome?
  
  The emperor will say.
  
  How many colors taken
  
  On Revolution Day?
  

  How many bullets bearest?
  
  The royal scar hast thou?
  
  Angels, write ""Promoted""
  
  On this soldier's brow!",474,,who never lost are unprepared a coronet to find who never thirsted flagons and cooling tamarind who never climbed the weary league can such a foot explore the purple territories on pizarros shore how many legions overcome the emperor will say how many colors taken on revolution day how many bullets bearest the royal scar hast thou angels write promoted on this soldiers brow,376
"  I can wade grief,","  I can wade grief,
  
  Whole pools of it, —
  
  I 'm used to that.
  
  But the least push of joy
  
  Breaks up my feet,
  
  And I tip — drunken.
  
  Let no pebble smile,
  
  'T was the new liquor, —
  
  That was all!
  

  Power is only pain,
  
  Stranded, through discipline,
  
  Till weights will hang.
  
  Give balm to giants,
  
  And they 'll wilt, like men.
  
  Give Himmaleh, —
  
  They 'll carry him!",422,,i can wade grief whole pools of it i m used to that but the least push of joy breaks up my feet and i tip drunken let no pebble smile t was the new liquor that was all power is only pain stranded through discipline till weights will hang give balm to giants and they ll wilt like men give himmaleh they ll carry him,315
"  I never hear the word ""escape""","  I never hear the word ""escape""
  
  Without a quicker blood,
  
  A sudden expectation,
  
  A flying attitude.
  

  I never hear of prisons broad
  
  By soldiers battered down,
  
  But I tug childish at my bars, —
  
  Only to fail again!",244,,i never hear the word escape without a quicker blood a sudden expectation a flying attitude i never hear of prisons broad by soldiers battered down but i tug childish at my bars only to fail again,196
  For each ecstatic instant,"  For each ecstatic instant
  
  We must an anguish pay
  
  In keen and quivering ratio
  
  To the ecstasy.
  

  For each beloved hour
  
  Sharp pittances of years,
  
  Bitter contested farthings
  
  And coffers heaped with tears.",236,,for each ecstatic instant we must an anguish pay in keen and quivering ratio to the ecstasy for each beloved hour sharp pittances of years bitter contested farthings and coffers heaped with tears,195
  Through the straight pass of suffering,"  Through the straight pass of suffering
  
  The martyrs even trod,
  
  Their feet upon temptation,
  
  Their faces upon God.
  

  A stately, shriven company;
  
  Convulsion playing round,
  
  Harmless as streaks of meteor
  
  Upon a planet's bound.
  

  Their faith the everlasting troth;
  
  Their expectation fair;
  
  The needle to the north degree
  
  Wades so, through polar air.",396,,through the straight pass of suffering the martyrs even trod their feet upon temptation their faces upon god a stately shriven company convulsion playing round harmless as streaks of meteor upon a planets bound their faith the everlasting troth their expectation fair the needle to the north degree wades so through polar air,325
"  I meant to have but modest needs,","  I meant to have but modest needs,
  
  Such as content, and heaven;
  
  Within my income these could lie,
  
  And life and I keep even.
  

  But since the last included both,
  
  It would suffice my prayer
  
  But just for one to stipulate,
  
  And grace would grant the pair.
  

  And so, upon this wise I prayed, —
  
  Great Spirit, give to me
  
  A heaven not so large as yours,
  
  But large enough for me.
  

  A smile suffused Jehovah's face;
  
  The cherubim withdrew;
  
  Grave saints stole out to look at me,
  
  And showed their dimples, too.
  

  I left the place with all my might, —
  
  My prayer away I threw;
  
  The quiet ages picked it up,
  
  And Judgment twinkled, too,
  

  That one so honest be extant
  
  As take the tale for true
  
  That ""Whatsoever you shall ask,
  
  Itself be given you.""
  

  But I, grown shrewder, scan the skies
  
  With a suspicious air, —
  
  As children, swindled for the first,
  
  All swindlers be, infer.",984,,i meant to have but modest needs such as content and heaven within my income these could lie and life and i keep even but since the last included both it would suffice my prayer but just for one to stipulate and grace would grant the pair and so upon this wise i prayed great spirit give to me a heaven not so large as yours but large enough for me a smile suffused jehovahs face the cherubim withdrew grave saints stole out to look at me and showed their dimples too i left the place with all my might my prayer away i threw the quiet ages picked it up and judgment twinkled too that one so honest be extant as take the tale for true that whatsoever you shall ask itself be given you but i grown shrewder scan the skies with a suspicious air as children swindled for the first all swindlers be infer,800
  The thought beneath so slight a film,"  The thought beneath so slight a film
  
  Is more distinctly seen, —
  
  As laces just reveal the surge,
  
  Or mists the Apennine.",135,,the thought beneath so slight a film is more distinctly seen as laces just reveal the surge or mists the apennine,113
  The soul unto itself,"  The soul unto itself
  
  Is an imperial friend, —
  
  Or the most agonizing spy
  
  An enemy could send.
  

  Secure against its own,
  
  No treason it can fear;
  
  Itself its sovereign, of itself
  
  The soul should stand in awe.",240,,the soul unto itself is an imperial friend or the most agonizing spy an enemy could send secure against its own no treason it can fear itself its sovereign of itself the soul should stand in awe,194
  Surgeons must be very careful,"  Surgeons must be very careful
  
  When they take the knife!
  
  Underneath their fine incisions
  
  Stirs the culprit, — Life!",131,,surgeons must be very careful when they take the knife underneath their fine incisions stirs the culprit life,109
"  I like to see it lap the miles,","  I like to see it lap the miles,
  
  And lick the valleys up,
  
  And stop to feed itself at tanks;
  
  And then, prodigious, step
  

  Around a pile of mountains,
  
  And, supercilious, peer
  
  In shanties by the sides of roads;
  
  And then a quarry pare
  

  To fit its sides, and crawl between,
  
  Complaining all the while
  
  In horrid, hooting stanza;
  
  Then chase itself down hill
  

  And neigh like Boanerges;
  
  Then, punctual as a star,
  
  Stop — docile and omnipotent —
  
  At its own stable door.",532,,i like to see it lap the miles and lick the valleys up and stop to feed itself at tanks and then prodigious step around a pile of mountains and supercilious peer in shanties by the sides of roads and then a quarry pare to fit its sides and crawl between complaining all the while in horrid hooting stanza then chase itself down hill and neigh like boanerges then punctual as a star stop docile and omnipotent at its own stable door,431
"  The show is not the show,","  The show is not the show,
  
  But they that go.
  
  Menagerie to me
  
  My neighbor be.
  
  Fair play —
  
  Both went to see.",132,,the show is not the show but they that go menagerie to me my neighbor be fair play both went to see,99
  Delight becomes pictorial,"  Delight becomes pictorial
  
  When viewed through pain, —
  
  More fair, because impossible
  
  That any gain.
  

  The mountain at a given distance
  
  In amber lies;
  
  Approached, the amber flits a little, —
  
  And that 's the skies!",247,,delight becomes pictorial when viewed through pain more fair because impossible that any gain the mountain at a given distance in amber lies approached the amber flits a little and that s the skies,197
  A thought went up my mind to-day,"  A thought went up my mind to-day
  
  That I have had before,
  
  But did not finish, — some way back,
  
  I could not fix the year,
  

  Nor where it went, nor why it came
  
  The second time to me,
  
  Nor definitely what it was,
  
  Have I the art to say.
  

  But somewhere in my soul, I know
  
  I 've met the thing before;
  
  It just reminded me — 't was all —
  
  And came my way no more.",408,,a thought went up my mind today that i have had before but did not finish some way back i could not fix the year nor where it went nor why it came the second time to me nor definitely what it was have i the art to say but somewhere in my soul i know i ve met the thing before it just reminded me t was all and came my way no more,329
  Is Heaven a physician?,"  Is Heaven a physician?
  
  They say that He can heal,
  
  But medicine posthumous
  
  Is unavailable.
  

  Is Heaven an exchequer?
  
  They speak of what we owe;
  
  But that negotiation
  
  I 'm not a party to.",220,,is heaven a physician they say that he can heal but medicine posthumous is unavailable is heaven an exchequer they speak of what we owe but that negotiation i m not a party to,175
"  Though I get home how late, how late!","  Though I get home how late, how late!
  
  So I get home, 't will compensate.
  
  Better will be the ecstasy
  
  That they have done expecting me,
  
  When, night descending, dumb and dark,
  
  They hear my unexpected knock.
  
  Transporting must the moment be,
  
  Brewed from decades of agony!
  

  To think just how the fire will burn,
  
  Just how long-cheated eyes will turn
  
  To wonder what myself will say,
  
  And what itself will say to me,
  
  Beguiles the centuries of way!",499,,though i get home how late how late so i get home t will compensate better will be the ecstasy that they have done expecting me when night descending dumb and dark they hear my unexpected knock transporting must the moment be brewed from decades of agony to think just how the fire will burn just how longcheated eyes will turn to wonder what myself will say and what itself will say to me beguiles the centuries of way,419
"  A poor torn heart, a tattered heart,","  A poor torn heart, a tattered heart,
  
  That sat it down to rest,
  
  Nor noticed that the ebbing day
  
  Flowed silver to the west,
  
  Nor noticed night did soft descend
  
  Nor constellation burn,
  
  Intent upon the vision
  
  Of latitudes unknown.
  

  The angels, happening that way,
  
  This dusty heart espied;
  
  Tenderly took it up from toil
  
  And carried it to God.
  
  There, — sandals for the barefoot;
  
  There, — gathered from the gales,
  
  Do the blue havens by the hand
  
  Lead the wandering sails.",539,,a poor torn heart a tattered heart that sat it down to rest nor noticed that the ebbing day flowed silver to the west nor noticed night did soft descend nor constellation burn intent upon the vision of latitudes unknown the angels happening that way this dusty heart espied tenderly took it up from toil and carried it to god there sandals for the barefoot there gathered from the gales do the blue havens by the hand lead the wandering sails,442
"  I should have been too glad, I see,","  I should have been too glad, I see,
  
  Too lifted for the scant degree
  
  Of life's penurious round;
  
  My little circuit would have shamed
  
  This new circumference, have blamed
  
  The homelier time behind.
  

  I should have been too saved, I see,
  
  Too rescued; fear too dim to me
  
  That I could spell the prayer
  
  I knew so perfect yesterday, —
  
  That scalding one, ""Sabachthani,""
  
  Recited fluent here.
  

  Earth would have been too much, I see,
  
  And heaven not enough for me;
  
  I should have had the joy
  
  Without the fear to justify, —
  
  The palm without the Calvary;
  
  So, Saviour, crucify.
  

  Defeat whets victory, they say;
  
  The reefs in old Gethsemane
  
  Endear the shore beyond.
  
  'T is beggars banquets best define;
  
  'T is thirsting vitalizes wine, —
  
  Faith faints to understand.",858,,i should have been too glad i see too lifted for the scant degree of lifes penurious round my little circuit would have shamed this new circumference have blamed the homelier time behind i should have been too saved i see too rescued fear too dim to me that i could spell the prayer i knew so perfect yesterday that scalding one sabachthani recited fluent here earth would have been too much i see and heaven not enough for me i should have had the joy without the fear to justify the palm without the calvary so saviour crucify defeat whets victory they say the reefs in old gethsemane endear the shore beyond t is beggars banquets best define t is thirsting vitalizes wine faith faints to understand,701
"  It tossed and tossed, —","  It tossed and tossed, —
  
  A little brig I knew, —
  
  O'ertook by blast,
  
  It spun and spun,
  
  And groped delirious, for morn.
  

  It slipped and slipped,
  
  As one that drunken stepped;
  
  Its white foot tripped,
  
  Then dropped from sight.
  

  Ah, brig, good-night
  
  To crew and you;
  
  The ocean's heart too smooth, too blue,
  
  To break for you.",378,,it tossed and tossed a little brig i knew oertook by blast it spun and spun and groped delirious for morn it slipped and slipped as one that drunken stepped its white foot tripped then dropped from sight ah brig goodnight to crew and you the oceans heart too smooth too blue to break for you,291
"  Victory comes late,","  Victory comes late,
  
  And is held low to freezing lips
  
  Too rapt with frost
  
  To take it.
  
  How sweet it would have tasted,
  
  Just a drop!
  
  Was God so economical?
  
  His table 's spread too high for us
  
  Unless we dine on tip-toe.
  
  Crumbs fit such little mouths,
  
  Cherries suit robins;
  
  The eagle's golden breakfast
  
  Strangles them.
  
  God keeps his oath to sparrows,
  
  Who of little love
  
  Know how to starve!",461,,victory comes late and is held low to freezing lips too rapt with frost to take it how sweet it would have tasted just a drop was god so economical his table s spread too high for us unless we dine on tiptoe crumbs fit such little mouths cherries suit robins the eagles golden breakfast strangles them god keeps his oath to sparrows who of little love know how to starve,370
"  God gave a loaf to every bird,","  God gave a loaf to every bird,
  
  But just a crumb to me;
  
  I dare not eat it, though I starve, —
  
  My poignant luxury
  
  To own it, touch it, prove the feat
  
  That made the pellet mine, —
  
  Too happy in my sparrow chance
  
  For ampler coveting.
  

  It might be famine all around,
  
  I could not miss an ear,
  
  Such plenty smiles upon my board,
  
  My garner shows so fair.
  
  I wonder how the rich may feel, —
  
  An Indiaman — an Earl?
  
  I deem that I with but a crumb
  
  Am sovereign of them all.",535,,god gave a loaf to every bird but just a crumb to me i dare not eat it though i starve my poignant luxury to own it touch it prove the feat that made the pellet mine too happy in my sparrow chance for ampler coveting it might be famine all around i could not miss an ear such plenty smiles upon my board my garner shows so fair i wonder how the rich may feel an indiaman an earl i deem that i with but a crumb am sovereign of them all,434
  Experiment to me,"  Experiment to me
  
  Is every one I meet.
  
  If it contain a kernel?
  
  The figure of a nut
  

  Presents upon a tree,
  
  Equally plausibly;
  
  But meat within is requisite,
  
  To squirrels and to me.",214,,experiment to me is every one i meet if it contain a kernel the figure of a nut presents upon a tree equally plausibly but meat within is requisite to squirrels and to me,170
"  My country need not change her gown,","  My country need not change her gown,
  
  Her triple suit as sweet
  
  As when 't was cut at Lexington,
  
  And first pronounced ""a fit.""
  

  Great Britain disapproves ""the stars;""
  
  Disparagement discreet, —
  
  There 's something in their attitude
  
  That taunts her bayonet.",289,,my country need not change her gown her triple suit as sweet as when t was cut at lexington and first pronounced a fit great britain disapproves the stars disparagement discreet there s something in their attitude that taunts her bayonet,237
  Faith is a fine invention,"  Faith is a fine invention
  
  For gentlemen who see;
  
  But microscopes are prudent
  
  In an emergency!",110,,faith is a fine invention for gentlemen who see but microscopes are prudent in an emergency,91
"  Except the heaven had come so near,","  Except the heaven had come so near,
  
  So seemed to choose my door,
  
  The distance would not haunt me so;
  
  I had not hoped before.
  

  But just to hear the grace depart
  
  I never thought to see,
  
  Afflicts me with a double loss;
  
  'T is lost, and lost to me.",280,,except the heaven had come so near so seemed to choose my door the distance would not haunt me so i had not hoped before but just to hear the grace depart i never thought to see afflicts me with a double loss t is lost and lost to me,233
  Portraits are to daily faces,"  Portraits are to daily faces
  
  As an evening west
  
  To a fine, pedantic sunshine
  
  In a satin vest.",110,,portraits are to daily faces as an evening west to a fine pedantic sunshine in a satin vest,91
  I took my power in my hand.,"  I took my power in my hand.
  
  And went against the world;
  
  'T was not so much as David had,
  
  But I was twice as bold.
  

  I aimed my pebble, but myself
  
  Was all the one that fell.
  
  Was it Goliath was too large,
  
  Or only I too small?",259,,i took my power in my hand and went against the world t was not so much as david had but i was twice as bold i aimed my pebble but myself was all the one that fell was it goliath was too large or only i too small,212
  A shady friend for torrid days,"  A shady friend for torrid days
  
  Is easier to find
  
  Than one of higher temperature
  
  For frigid hour of mind.
  

  The vane a little to the east
  
  Scares muslin souls away;
  
  If broadcloth breasts are firmer
  
  Than those of organdy,
  

  Who is to blame? The weaver?
  
  Ah! the bewildering thread!
  
  The tapestries of paradise
  
  So notelessly are made!",383,,a shady friend for torrid days is easier to find than one of higher temperature for frigid hour of mind the vane a little to the east scares muslin souls away if broadcloth breasts are firmer than those of organdy who is to blame the weaver ah the bewildering thread the tapestries of paradise so notelessly are made,316
  Each life converges to some centre,"  Each life converges to some centre
  
  Expressed or still;
  
  Exists in every human nature
  
  A goal,
  

  Admitted scarcely to itself, it may be,
  
  Too fair
  
  For credibility's temerity
  
  To dare.
  

  Adored with caution, as a brittle heaven,
  
  To reach
  
  Were hopeless as the rainbow's raiment
  
  To touch,
  

  Yet persevered toward, surer for the distance;
  
  How high
  
  Unto the saints' slow diligence
  
  The sky!
  

  Ungained, it may be, by a life's low venture,
  
  But then,
  
  Eternity enables the endeavoring
  
  Again.",570,,each life converges to some centre expressed or still exists in every human nature a goal admitted scarcely to itself it may be too fair for credibilitys temerity to dare adored with caution as a brittle heaven to reach were hopeless as the rainbows raiment to touch yet persevered toward surer for the distance how high unto the saints slow diligence the sky ungained it may be by a lifes low venture but then eternity enables the endeavoring again,449
"  Before I got my eye put out,","  Before I got my eye put out,
  
  I liked as well to see
  
  As other creatures that have eyes,
  
  And know no other way.
  

  But were it told to me, to-day,
  
  That I might have the sky
  
  For mine, I tell you that my heart
  
  Would split, for size of me.
  

  The meadows mine, the mountains mine, —
  
  All forests, stintless stars,
  
  As much of noon as I could take
  
  Between my finite eyes.
  

  The motions of the dipping birds,
  
  The lightning's jointed road,
  
  For mine to look at when I liked, —
  
  The news would strike me dead!
  

  So safer, guess, with just my soul
  
  Upon the window-pane
  
  Where other creatures put their eyes,
  
  Incautious of the sun.",706,,before i got my eye put out i liked as well to see as other creatures that have eyes and know no other way but were it told to me today that i might have the sky for mine i tell you that my heart would split for size of me the meadows mine the mountains mine all forests stintless stars as much of noon as i could take between my finite eyes the motions of the dipping birds the lightnings jointed road for mine to look at when i liked the news would strike me dead so safer guess with just my soul upon the windowpane where other creatures put their eyes incautious of the sun,577
  Talk with prudence to a beggar,"  Talk with prudence to a beggar
  
  Of 'Potosi' and the mines!
  
  Reverently to the hungry
  
  Of your viands and your wines!
  

  Cautious, hint to any captive
  
  You have passed enfranchised feet!
  
  Anecdotes of air in dungeons
  
  Have sometimes proved deadly sweet!",281,,talk with prudence to a beggar of potosi and the mines reverently to the hungry of your viands and your wines cautious hint to any captive you have passed enfranchised feet anecdotes of air in dungeons have sometimes proved deadly sweet,236
"  He preached upon ""breadth"" till it argued him narrow, —","  He preached upon ""breadth"" till it argued him narrow, —
  
  The broad are too broad to define;
  
  And of ""truth"" until it proclaimed him a liar, —
  
  The truth never flaunted a sign.
  

  Simplicity fled from his counterfeit presence
  
  As gold the pyrites would shun.
  
  What confusion would cover the innocent Jesus
  
  To meet so enabled a man!",360,,he preached upon breadth till it argued him narrow the broad are too broad to define and of truth until it proclaimed him a liar the truth never flaunted a sign simplicity fled from his counterfeit presence as gold the pyrites would shun what confusion would cover the innocent jesus to meet so enabled a man,308
  Good night! which put the candle out?,"  Good night! which put the candle out?
  
  A jealous zephyr, not a doubt.
  
  Ah! friend, you little knew
  
  How long at that celestial wick
  
  The angels labored diligent;
  
  Extinguished, now, for you!
  

  It might have been the lighthouse spark
  
  Some sailor, rowing in the dark,
  
  Had importuned to see!
  
  It might have been the waning lamp
  
  That lit the drummer from the camp
  
  To purer reveille!",428,,good night which put the candle out a jealous zephyr not a doubt ah friend you little knew how long at that celestial wick the angels labored diligent extinguished now for you it might have been the lighthouse spark some sailor rowing in the dark had importuned to see it might have been the waning lamp that lit the drummer from the camp to purer reveille,356
"  When I hoped I feared,","  When I hoped I feared,
  
  Since I hoped I dared;
  
  Everywhere alone
  
  As a church remain;
  
  Spectre cannot harm,
  
  Serpent cannot charm;
  
  He deposes doom,
  
  Who hath suffered him.",202,,when i hoped i feared since i hoped i dared everywhere alone as a church remain spectre cannot harm serpent cannot charm he deposes doom who hath suffered him,158
"  A deed knocks first at thought,","  A deed knocks first at thought,
  
  And then it knocks at will.
  
  That is the manufacturing spot,
  
  And will at home and well.
  

  It then goes out an act,
  
  Or is entombed so still
  
  That only to the ear of God
  
  Its doom is audible.",254,,a deed knocks first at thought and then it knocks at will that is the manufacturing spot and will at home and well it then goes out an act or is entombed so still that only to the ear of god its doom is audible,210
"  Mine enemy is growing old, —","  Mine enemy is growing old, —
  
  I have at last revenge.
  
  The palate of the hate departs;
  
  If any would avenge, —
  

  Let him be quick, the viand flits,
  
  It is a faded meat.
  
  Anger as soon as fed is dead;
  
  'T is starving makes it fat.",259,,mine enemy is growing old i have at last revenge the palate of the hate departs if any would avenge let him be quick the viand flits it is a faded meat anger as soon as fed is dead t is starving makes it fat,207
"  Remorse is memory awake,","  Remorse is memory awake,
  
  Her companies astir, —
  
  A presence of departed acts
  
  At window and at door.
  

  It's past set down before the soul,
  
  And lighted with a match,
  
  Perusal to facilitate
  
  Of its condensed despatch.
  

  Remorse is cureless, — the disease
  
  Not even God can heal;
  
  For 't is his institution, —
  
  The complement of hell.",379,,remorse is memory awake her companies astir a presence of departed acts at window and at door its past set down before the soul and lighted with a match perusal to facilitate of its condensed despatch remorse is cureless the disease not even god can heal for t is his institution the complement of hell,302
"  The body grows outside, —","  The body grows outside, —
  
  The more convenient way, —
  
  That if the spirit like to hide,
  
  Its temple stands alway
  

  Ajar, secure, inviting;
  
  It never did betray
  
  The soul that asked its shelter
  
  In timid honesty.",241,,the body grows outside the more convenient way that if the spirit like to hide its temple stands alway ajar secure inviting it never did betray the soul that asked its shelter in timid honesty,192
  Undue significance a starving man attaches,"  Undue significance a starving man attaches
  
  To food
  
  Far off; he sighs, and therefore hopeless,
  
  And therefore good.
  

  Partaken, it relieves indeed, but proves us
  
  That spices fly
  
  In the receipt. It was the distance
  
  Was savory.",259,,undue significance a starving man attaches to food far off he sighs and therefore hopeless and therefore good partaken it relieves indeed but proves us that spices fly in the receipt it was the distance was savory,213
"  Heart not so heavy as mine,","  Heart not so heavy as mine,
  
  Wending late home,
  
  As it passed my window
  
  Whistled itself a tune, —
  

  A careless snatch, a ballad,
  
  A ditty of the street;
  
  Yet to my irritated ear
  
  An anodyne so sweet,
  

  It was as if a bobolink,
  
  Sauntering this way,
  
  Carolled and mused and carolled,
  
  Then bubbled slow away.
  

  It was as if a chirping brook
  
  Upon a toilsome way
  
  Set bleeding feet to minuets
  
  Without the knowing why.
  

  To-morrow, night will come again,
  
  Weary, perhaps, and sore.
  
  Ah, bugle, by my window,
  
  I pray you stroll once more!",614,,heart not so heavy as mine wending late home as it passed my window whistled itself a tune a careless snatch a ballad a ditty of the street yet to my irritated ear an anodyne so sweet it was as if a bobolink sauntering this way carolled and mused and carolled then bubbled slow away it was as if a chirping brook upon a toilsome way set bleeding feet to minuets without the knowing why tomorrow night will come again weary perhaps and sore ah bugle by my window i pray you stroll once more,489
"  I many times thought peace had come,","  I many times thought peace had come,
  
  When peace was far away;
  
  As wrecked men deem they sight the land
  
  At centre of the sea,
  

  And struggle slacker, but to prove,
  
  As hopelessly as I,
  
  How many the fictitious shores
  
  Before the harbor lie.",271,,i many times thought peace had come when peace was far away as wrecked men deem they sight the land at centre of the sea and struggle slacker but to prove as hopelessly as i how many the fictitious shores before the harbor lie,226
  Unto my books so good to turn,"  Unto my books so good to turn
  
  Far ends of tired days;
  
  It half endears the abstinence,
  
  And pain is missed in praise.
  

  As flavors cheer retarded guests
  
  With banquetings to be,
  
  So spices stimulate the time
  
  Till my small library.
  

  It may be wilderness without,
  
  Far feet of failing men,
  
  But holiday excludes the night,
  
  And it is bells within.
  

  I thank these kinsmen of the shelf;
  
  Their countenances bland
  
  Enamour in prospective,
  
  And satisfy, obtained.",523,,unto my books so good to turn far ends of tired days it half endears the abstinence and pain is missed in praise as flavors cheer retarded guests with banquetings to be so spices stimulate the time till my small library it may be wilderness without far feet of failing men but holiday excludes the night and it is bells within i thank these kinsmen of the shelf their countenances bland enamour in prospective and satisfy obtained,430
"  This merit hath the worst, —","  This merit hath the worst, —
  
  It cannot be again.
  
  When Fate hath taunted last
  
  And thrown her furthest stone,
  

  The maimed may pause and breathe,
  
  And glance securely round.
  
  The deer invites no longer
  
  Than it eludes the hound.",259,,this merit hath the worst it cannot be again when fate hath taunted last and thrown her furthest stone the maimed may pause and breathe and glance securely round the deer invites no longer than it eludes the hound,213
  I had been hungry all the years;,"  I had been hungry all the years;
  
  My noon had come, to dine;
  
  I, trembling, drew the table near,
  
  And touched the curious wine.
  

  'T was this on tables I had seen,
  
  When turning, hungry, lone,
  
  I looked in windows, for the wealth
  
  I could not hope to own.
  

  I did not know the ample bread,
  
  'T was so unlike the crumb
  
  The birds and I had often shared
  
  In Nature's dining-room.
  

  The plenty hurt me, 't was so new, —
  
  Myself felt ill and odd,
  
  As berry of a mountain bush
  
  Transplanted to the road.
  

  Nor was I hungry; so I found
  
  That hunger was a way
  
  Of persons outside windows,
  
  The entering takes away.",685,,i had been hungry all the years my noon had come to dine i trembling drew the table near and touched the curious wine t was this on tables i had seen when turning hungry lone i looked in windows for the wealth i could not hope to own i did not know the ample bread t was so unlike the crumb the birds and i had often shared in natures diningroom the plenty hurt me t was so new myself felt ill and odd as berry of a mountain bush transplanted to the road nor was i hungry so i found that hunger was a way of persons outside windows the entering takes away,555
"  I gained it so,","  I gained it so,
  
  By climbing slow,
  
  By catching at the twigs that grow
  
  Between the bliss and me.
  
  It hung so high,
  
  As well the sky
  
  Attempt by strategy.
  


  I said I gained it, —
  
  This was all.
  
  Look, how I clutch it,
  
  Lest it fall,
  
  And I a pauper go;
  
  Unfitted by an instant's grace
  
  For the contented beggar's face
  
  I wore an hour ago.",397,,i gained it so by climbing slow by catching at the twigs that grow between the bliss and me it hung so high as well the sky attempt by strategy i said i gained it this was all look how i clutch it lest it fall and i a pauper go unfitted by an instants grace for the contented beggars face i wore an hour ago,307
"  To learn the transport by the pain,","  To learn the transport by the pain,
  
  As blind men learn the sun;
  
  To die of thirst, suspecting
  
  That brooks in meadows run;
  

  To stay the homesick, homesick feet
  
  Upon a foreign shore
  
  Haunted by native lands, the while,
  
  And blue, beloved air —
  

  This is the sovereign anguish,
  
  This, the signal woe!
  
  These are the patient laureates
  
  Whose voices, trained below,
  

  Ascend in ceaseless carol,
  
  Inaudible, indeed,
  
  To us, the duller scholars
  
  Of the mysterious bard!",528,,to learn the transport by the pain as blind men learn the sun to die of thirst suspecting that brooks in meadows run to stay the homesick homesick feet upon a foreign shore haunted by native lands the while and blue beloved air this is the sovereign anguish this the signal woe these are the patient laureates whose voices trained below ascend in ceaseless carol inaudible indeed to us the duller scholars of the mysterious bard,428
"  I years had been from home,","  I years had been from home,
  
  And now, before the door,
  
  I dared not open, lest a face
  
  I never saw before
  

  Stare vacant into mine
  
  And ask my business there.
  
  My business, — just a life I left,
  
  Was such still dwelling there?
  

  I fumbled at my nerve,
  
  I scanned the windows near;
  
  The silence like an ocean rolled,
  
  And broke against my ear.
  

  I laughed a wooden laugh
  
  That I could fear a door,
  
  Who danger and the dead had faced,
  
  But never quaked before.
  

  I fitted to the latch
  
  My hand, with trembling care,
  
  Lest back the awful door should spring,
  
  And leave me standing there.
  

  I moved my fingers off
  
  As cautiously as glass,
  
  And held my ears, and like a thief
  
  Fled gasping from the house.",794,,i years had been from home and now before the door i dared not open lest a face i never saw before stare vacant into mine and ask my business there my business just a life i left was such still dwelling there i fumbled at my nerve i scanned the windows near the silence like an ocean rolled and broke against my ear i laughed a wooden laugh that i could fear a door who danger and the dead had faced but never quaked before i fitted to the latch my hand with trembling care lest back the awful door should spring and leave me standing there i moved my fingers off as cautiously as glass and held my ears and like a thief fled gasping from the house,648
  Prayer is the little implement,"  Prayer is the little implement
  
  Through which men reach
  
  Where presence is denied them.
  
  They fling their speech
  

  By means of it in God's ear;
  
  If then He hear,
  
  This sums the apparatus
  
  Comprised in prayer.",238,,prayer is the little implement through which men reach where presence is denied them they fling their speech by means of it in gods ear if then he hear this sums the apparatus comprised in prayer,195
  I know that he exists,"  I know that he exists
  
  Somewhere, in silence.
  
  He has hid his rare life
  
  From our gross eyes.
  

  'T is an instant's play,
  
  'T is a fond ambush,
  
  Just to make bliss
  
  Earn her own surprise!
  

  But should the play
  
  Prove piercing earnest,
  
  Should the glee glaze
  
  In death's stiff stare,
  

  Would not the fun
  
  Look too expensive?
  
  Would not the jest
  
  Have crawled too far?",427,,i know that he exists somewhere in silence he has hid his rare life from our gross eyes t is an instants play t is a fond ambush just to make bliss earn her own surprise but should the play prove piercing earnest should the glee glaze in deaths stiff stare would not the fun look too expensive would not the jest have crawled too far,333
  Musicians wrestle everywhere:,"  Musicians wrestle everywhere:
  
  All day, among the crowded air,
  
  I hear the silver strife;
  
  And — waking long before the dawn —
  
  Such transport breaks upon the town
  
  I think it that ""new life!""
  

  It is not bird, it has no nest;
  
  Nor band, in brass and scarlet dressed,
  
  Nor tambourine, nor man;
  
  It is not hymn from pulpit read, —
  
  The morning stars the treble led
  
  On time's first afternoon!
  

  Some say it is the spheres at play!
  
  Some say that bright majority
  
  Of vanished dames and men!
  
  Some think it service in the place
  
  Where we, with late, celestial face,
  
  Please God, shall ascertain!",662,,musicians wrestle everywhere all day among the crowded air i hear the silver strife and waking long before the dawn such transport breaks upon the town i think it that new life it is not bird it has no nest nor band in brass and scarlet dressed nor tambourine nor man it is not hymn from pulpit read the morning stars the treble led on times first afternoon some say it is the spheres at play some say that bright majority of vanished dames and men some think it service in the place where we with late celestial face please god shall ascertain,544
  Just lost when I was saved!,"  Just lost when I was saved!
  
  Just felt the world go by!
  
  Just girt me for the onset with eternity,
  
  When breath blew back,
  
  And on the other side
  
  I heard recede the disappointed tide!
  

  Therefore, as one returned, I feel,
  
  Odd secrets of the line to tell!
  
  Some sailor, skirting foreign shores,
  
  Some pale reporter from the awful doors
  
  Before the seal!
  

  Next time, to stay!
  
  Next time, the things to see
  
  By ear unheard,
  
  Unscrutinized by eye.
  

  Next time, to tarry,
  
  While the ages steal, —
  
  Slow tramp the centuries,
  
  And the cycles wheel.",618,,just lost when i was saved just felt the world go by just girt me for the onset with eternity when breath blew back and on the other side i heard recede the disappointed tide therefore as one returned i feel odd secrets of the line to tell some sailor skirting foreign shores some pale reporter from the awful doors before the seal next time to stay next time the things to see by ear unheard unscrutinized by eye next time to tarry while the ages steal slow tramp the centuries and the cycles wheel,499
  Of all the souls that stand create,"  Of all the souls that stand create
  
  I have elected one.
  
  When sense from spirit files away,
  
  And subterfuge is done;
  

  When that which is and that which was
  
  Apart, intrinsic, stand,
  
  And this brief tragedy of flesh
  
  Is shifted like a sand;
  

  When figures show their royal front
  
  And mists are carved away, —
  
  Behold the atom I preferred
  
  To all the lists of clay!",410,,of all the souls that stand create i have elected one when sense from spirit files away and subterfuge is done when that which is and that which was apart intrinsic stand and this brief tragedy of flesh is shifted like a sand when figures show their royal front and mists are carved away behold the atom i preferred to all the lists of clay,340
"  I have no life but this,","  I have no life but this,
  
  To lead it here;
  
  Nor any death, but lest
  
  Dispelled from there;
  

  Nor tie to earths to come,
  
  Nor action new,
  
  Except through this extent,
  
  The realm of you.",214,,i have no life but this to lead it here nor any death but lest dispelled from there nor tie to earths to come nor action new except through this extent the realm of you,168
  Your riches taught me poverty.,"  Your riches taught me poverty.
  
  Myself a millionnaire
  
  In little wealths, — as girls could boast, —
  
  Till broad as Buenos Ayre,
  

  You drifted your dominions
  
  A different Peru;
  
  And I esteemed all poverty,
  
  For life's estate with you.
  

  Of mines I little know, myself,
  
  But just the names of gems, —
  
  The colors of the commonest;
  
  And scarce of diadems
  

  So much that, did I meet the queen,
  
  Her glory I should know:
  
  But this must be a different wealth,
  
  To miss it beggars so.
  

  I 'm sure 't is India all day
  
  To those who look on you
  
  Without a stint, without a blame, —
  
  Might I but be the Jew!
  

  I 'm sure it is Golconda,
  
  Beyond my power to deem, —
  
  To have a smile for mine each day,
  
  How better than a gem!
  

  At least, it solaces to know
  
  That there exists a gold,
  
  Although I prove it just in time
  
  Its distance to behold!
  

  It 's far, far treasure to surmise,
  
  And estimate the pearl
  
  That slipped my simple fingers through
  
  While just a girl at school!",1088,,your riches taught me poverty myself a millionnaire in little wealths as girls could boast till broad as buenos ayre you drifted your dominions a different peru and i esteemed all poverty for lifes estate with you of mines i little know myself but just the names of gems the colors of the commonest and scarce of diadems so much that did i meet the queen her glory i should know but this must be a different wealth to miss it beggars so i m sure t is india all day to those who look on you without a stint without a blame might i but be the jew i m sure it is golconda beyond my power to deem to have a smile for mine each day how better than a gem at least it solaces to know that there exists a gold although i prove it just in time its distance to behold it s far far treasure to surmise and estimate the pearl that slipped my simple fingers through while just a girl at school,880
"  I gave myself to him,","  I gave myself to him,
  
  And took himself for pay.
  
  The solemn contract of a life
  
  Was ratified this way.
  

  The wealth might disappoint,
  
  Myself a poorer prove
  
  Than this great purchaser suspect,
  
  The daily own of Love
  

  Depreciate the vision;
  
  But, till the merchant buy,
  
  Still fable, in the isles of spice,
  
  The subtle cargoes lie.
  

  At least, 't is mutual risk, —
  
  Some found it mutual gain;
  
  Sweet debt of Life, — each night to owe,
  
  Insolvent, every noon.",521,,i gave myself to him and took himself for pay the solemn contract of a life was ratified this way the wealth might disappoint myself a poorer prove than this great purchaser suspect the daily own of love depreciate the vision but till the merchant buy still fable in the isles of spice the subtle cargoes lie at least t is mutual risk some found it mutual gain sweet debt of life each night to owe insolvent every noon,418
"  ""Going to him! Happy letter! Tell him —","  ""Going to him! Happy letter! Tell him —
  
  Tell him the page I didn't write;
  
  Tell him I only said the syntax,
  
  And left the verb and the pronoun out.
  
  Tell him just how the fingers hurried,
  
  Then how they waded, slow, slow, slow;
  
  And then you wished you had eyes in your pages,
  
  So you could see what moved them so.
  

  ""Tell him it wasn't a practised writer,
  
  You guessed, from the way the sentence toiled;
  
  You could hear the bodice tug, behind you,
  
  As if it held but the might of a child;
  
  You almost pitied it, you, it worked so.
  
  Tell him — No, you may quibble there,
  
  For it would split his heart to know it,
  
  And then you and I were silenter.
  

  ""Tell him night finished before we finished,
  
  And the old clock kept neighing 'day!'
  
  And you got sleepy and begged to be ended —
  
  What could it hinder so, to say?
  
  Tell him just how she sealed you, cautious,
  
  But if he ask where you are hid
  
  Until to-morrow, — happy letter!
  
  Gesture, coquette, and shake your head!""",1062,,going to him happy letter tell him tell him the page i didnt write tell him i only said the syntax and left the verb and the pronoun out tell him just how the fingers hurried then how they waded slow slow slow and then you wished you had eyes in your pages so you could see what moved them so tell him it wasnt a practised writer you guessed from the way the sentence toiled you could hear the bodice tug behind you as if it held but the might of a child you almost pitied it you it worked so tell him no you may quibble there for it would split his heart to know it and then you and i were silenter tell him night finished before we finished and the old clock kept neighing day and you got sleepy and begged to be ended what could it hinder so to say tell him just how she sealed you cautious but if he ask where you are hid until tomorrow happy letter gesture coquette and shake your head,890
  The way I read a letter 's this:,"  The way I read a letter 's this:
  
  'T is first I lock the door,
  
  And push it with my fingers next,
  
  For transport it be sure.
  

  And then I go the furthest off
  
  To counteract a knock;
  
  Then draw my little letter forth
  
  And softly pick its lock.
  

  Then, glancing narrow at the wall,
  
  And narrow at the floor,
  
  For firm conviction of a mouse
  
  Not exorcised before,
  

  Peruse how infinite I am
  
  To — no one that you know!
  
  And sigh for lack of heaven, — but not
  
  The heaven the creeds bestow.",548,,the way i read a letter s this t is first i lock the door and push it with my fingers next for transport it be sure and then i go the furthest off to counteract a knock then draw my little letter forth and softly pick its lock then glancing narrow at the wall and narrow at the floor for firm conviction of a mouse not exorcised before peruse how infinite i am to no one that you know and sigh for lack of heaven but not the heaven the creeds bestow,449
  Wild nights! Wild nights!,"  Wild nights! Wild nights!
  
  Were I with thee,
  
  Wild nights should be
  
  Our luxury!
  

  Futile the winds
  
  To a heart in port, —
  
  Done with the compass,
  
  Done with the chart.
  

  Rowing in Eden!
  
  Ah! the sea!
  
  Might I but moor
  
  To-night in thee!",283,,wild nights wild nights were i with thee wild nights should be our luxury futile the winds to a heart in port done with the compass done with the chart rowing in eden ah the sea might i but moor tonight in thee,210
"  The night was wide, and furnished scant","  The night was wide, and furnished scant
  
  With but a single star,
  
  That often as a cloud it met
  
  Blew out itself for fear.
  

  The wind pursued the little bush,
  
  And drove away the leaves
  
  November left; then clambered up
  
  And fretted in the eaves.
  

  No squirrel went abroad;
  
  A dog's belated feet
  
  Like intermittent plush were heard
  
  Adown the empty street.
  

  To feel if blinds be fast,
  
  And closer to the fire
  
  Her little rocking-chair to draw,
  
  And shiver for the poor,
  

  The housewife's gentle task.
  
  ""How pleasanter,"" said she
  
  Unto the sofa opposite,
  
  ""The sleet than May — no thee!""",664,,the night was wide and furnished scant with but a single star that often as a cloud it met blew out itself for fear the wind pursued the little bush and drove away the leaves november left then clambered up and fretted in the eaves no squirrel went abroad a dogs belated feet like intermittent plush were heard adown the empty street to feel if blinds be fast and closer to the fire her little rockingchair to draw and shiver for the poor the housewifes gentle task how pleasanter said she unto the sofa opposite the sleet than may no thee,539
  Did the harebell loose her girdle,"  Did the harebell loose her girdle
  
  To the lover bee,
  
  Would the bee the harebell hallow
  
  Much as formerly?
  

  Did the paradise, persuaded,
  
  Yield her moat of pearl,
  
  Would the Eden be an Eden,
  
  Or the earl an earl?",243,,did the harebell loose her girdle to the lover bee would the bee the harebell hallow much as formerly did the paradise persuaded yield her moat of pearl would the eden be an eden or the earl an earl,198
  A charm invests a face,"  A charm invests a face
  
  Imperfectly beheld, —
  
  The lady dare not lift her veil
  
  For fear it be dispelled.
  

  But peers beyond her mesh,
  
  And wishes, and denies, —
  
  Lest interview annul a want
  
  That image satisfies.",243,,a charm invests a face imperfectly beheld the lady dare not lift her veil for fear it be dispelled but peers beyond her mesh and wishes and denies lest interview annul a want that image satisfies,195
"  The rose did caper on her cheek,","  The rose did caper on her cheek,
  
  Her bodice rose and fell,
  
  Her pretty speech, like drunken men,
  
  Did stagger pitiful.
  

  Her fingers fumbled at her work, —
  
  Her needle would not go;
  
  What ailed so smart a little maid
  
  It puzzled me to know,
  

  Till opposite I spied a cheek
  
  That bore another rose;
  
  Just opposite, another speech
  
  That like the drunkard goes;
  

  A vest that, like the bodice, danced
  
  To the immortal tune, —
  
  Till those two troubled little clocks
  
  Ticked softly into one.",549,,the rose did caper on her cheek her bodice rose and fell her pretty speech like drunken men did stagger pitiful her fingers fumbled at her work her needle would not go what ailed so smart a little maid it puzzled me to know till opposite i spied a cheek that bore another rose just opposite another speech that like the drunkard goes a vest that like the bodice danced to the immortal tune till those two troubled little clocks ticked softly into one,450
"  In lands I never saw, they say,","  In lands I never saw, they say,
  
  Immortal Alps look down,
  
  Whose bonnets touch the firmament,
  
  Whose sandals touch the town, —
  

  Meek at whose everlasting feet
  
  A myriad daisies play.
  
  Which, sir, are you, and which am I,
  
  Upon an August day?",272,,in lands i never saw they say immortal alps look down whose bonnets touch the firmament whose sandals touch the town meek at whose everlasting feet a myriad daisies play which sir are you and which am i upon an august day,221
"  The moon is distant from the sea,","  The moon is distant from the sea,
  
  And yet with amber hands
  
  She leads him, docile as a boy,
  
  Along appointed sands.
  

  He never misses a degree;
  
  Obedient to her eye,
  
  He comes just so far toward the town,
  
  Just so far goes away.
  

  Oh, Signor, thine the amber hand,
  
  And mine the distant sea, —
  
  Obedient to the least command
  
  Thine eyes impose on me.",397,,the moon is distant from the sea and yet with amber hands she leads him docile as a boy along appointed sands he never misses a degree obedient to her eye he comes just so far toward the town just so far goes away oh signor thine the amber hand and mine the distant sea obedient to the least command thine eyes impose on me,323
"  He put the belt around my life, —","  He put the belt around my life, —
  
  I heard the buckle snap,
  
  And turned away, imperial,
  
  My lifetime folding up
  
  Deliberate, as a duke would do
  
  A kingdom's title-deed, —
  
  Henceforth a dedicated sort,
  
  A member of the cloud.
  

  Yet not too far to come at call,
  
  And do the little toils
  
  That make the circuit of the rest,
  
  And deal occasional smiles
  
  To lives that stoop to notice mine
  
  And kindly ask it in, —
  
  Whose invitation, knew you not
  
  For whom I must decline?",529,,he put the belt around my life i heard the buckle snap and turned away imperial my lifetime folding up deliberate as a duke would do a kingdoms titledeed henceforth a dedicated sort a member of the cloud yet not too far to come at call and do the little toils that make the circuit of the rest and deal occasional smiles to lives that stoop to notice mine and kindly ask it in whose invitation knew you not for whom i must decline,430
  I held a jewel in my fingers,"  I held a jewel in my fingers
  
  And went to sleep.
  
  The day was warm, and winds were prosy;
  
  I said: ""'T will keep.""
  

  I woke and chid my honest fingers, —
  
  The gem was gone;
  
  And now an amethyst remembrance
  
  Is all I own.",250,,i held a jewel in my fingers and went to sleep the day was warm and winds were prosy i said t will keep i woke and chid my honest fingers the gem was gone and now an amethyst remembrance is all i own,199
  What if I say I shall not wait?,"  What if I say I shall not wait?
  
  What if I burst the fleshly gate
  
  And pass, escaped, to thee?
  
  What if I file this mortal off,
  
  See where it hurt me, — that 's enough, —
  
  And wade in liberty?
  

  They cannot take us any more, —
  
  Dungeons may call, and guns implore;
  
  Unmeaning now, to me,
  
  As laughter was an hour ago,
  
  Or laces, or a travelling show,
  
  Or who died yesterday!",420,,what if i say i shall not wait what if i burst the fleshly gate and pass escaped to thee what if i file this mortal off see where it hurt me that s enough and wade in liberty they cannot take us any more dungeons may call and guns implore unmeaning now to me as laughter was an hour ago or laces or a travelling show or who died yesterday,338
"  Nature, the gentlest mother,","  Nature, the gentlest mother,
  
  Impatient of no child,
  
  The feeblest or the waywardest, —
  
  Her admonition mild
  

  In forest and the hill
  
  By traveller is heard,
  
  Restraining rampant squirrel
  
  Or too impetuous bird.
  

  How fair her conversation,
  
  A summer afternoon, —
  
  Her household, her assembly;
  
  And when the sun goes down
  

  Her voice among the aisles
  
  Incites the timid prayer
  
  Of the minutest cricket,
  
  The most unworthy flower.
  

  When all the children sleep
  
  She turns as long away
  
  As will suffice to light her lamps;
  
  Then, bending from the sky
  

  With infinite affection
  
  And infiniter care,
  
  Her golden finger on her lip,
  
  Wills silence everywhere.",747,,nature the gentlest mother impatient of no child the feeblest or the waywardest her admonition mild in forest and the hill by traveller is heard restraining rampant squirrel or too impetuous bird how fair her conversation a summer afternoon her household her assembly and when the sun goes down her voice among the aisles incites the timid prayer of the minutest cricket the most unworthy flower when all the children sleep she turns as long away as will suffice to light her lamps then bending from the sky with infinite affection and infiniter care her golden finger on her lip wills silence everywhere,604
  Will there really be a morning?,"  Will there really be a morning?
  
  Is there such a thing as day?
  
  Could I see it from the mountains
  
  If I were as tall as they?
  

  Has it feet like water-lilies?
  
  Has it feathers like a bird?
  
  Is it brought from famous countries
  
  Of which I have never heard?
  

  Oh, some scholar! Oh, some sailor!
  
  Oh, some wise man from the skies!
  
  Please to tell a little pilgrim
  
  Where the place called morning lies!",444,,will there really be a morning is there such a thing as day could i see it from the mountains if i were as tall as they has it feet like waterlilies has it feathers like a bird is it brought from famous countries of which i have never heard oh some scholar oh some sailor oh some wise man from the skies please to tell a little pilgrim where the place called morning lies,371
  At half-past three a single bird,"  At half-past three a single bird
  
  Unto a silent sky
  
  Propounded but a single term
  
  Of cautious melody.
  

  At half-past four, experiment
  
  Had subjugated test,
  
  And lo! her silver principle
  
  Supplanted all the rest.
  

  At half-past seven, element
  
  Nor implement was seen,
  
  And place was where the presence was,
  
  Circumference between.",376,,at halfpast three a single bird unto a silent sky propounded but a single term of cautious melody at halfpast four experiment had subjugated test and lo her silver principle supplanted all the rest at halfpast seven element nor implement was seen and place was where the presence was circumference between,305
"  The day came slow, till five o'clock,","  The day came slow, till five o'clock,
  
  Then sprang before the hills
  
  Like hindered rubies, or the light
  
  A sudden musket spills.
  

  The purple could not keep the east,
  
  The sunrise shook from fold,
  
  Like breadths of topaz, packed a night,
  
  The lady just unrolled.
  

  The happy winds their timbrels took;
  
  The birds, in docile rows,
  
  Arranged themselves around their prince
  
  (The wind is prince of those).
  

  The orchard sparkled like a Jew, —
  
  How mighty 't was, to stay
  
  A guest in this stupendous place,
  
  The parlor of the day!",588,,the day came slow till five oclock then sprang before the hills like hindered rubies or the light a sudden musket spills the purple could not keep the east the sunrise shook from fold like breadths of topaz packed a night the lady just unrolled the happy winds their timbrels took the birds in docile rows arranged themselves around their prince the wind is prince of those the orchard sparkled like a jew how mighty t was to stay a guest in this stupendous place the parlor of the day,485
  The sun just touched the morning;,"  The sun just touched the morning;
  
  The morning, happy thing,
  
  Supposed that he had come to dwell,
  
  And life would be all spring.
  

  She felt herself supremer, —
  
  A raised, ethereal thing;
  
  Henceforth for her what holiday!
  
  Meanwhile, her wheeling king
  

  Trailed slow along the orchards
  
  His haughty, spangled hems,
  
  Leaving a new necessity, —
  
  The want of diadems!
  

  The morning fluttered, staggered,
  
  Felt feebly for her crown, —
  
  Her unanointed forehead
  
  Henceforth her only one.",542,,the sun just touched the morning the morning happy thing supposed that he had come to dwell and life would be all spring she felt herself supremer a raised ethereal thing henceforth for her what holiday meanwhile her wheeling king trailed slow along the orchards his haughty spangled hems leaving a new necessity the want of diadems the morning fluttered staggered felt feebly for her crown her unanointed forehead henceforth her only one,438
  The robin is the one,"  The robin is the one
  
  That interrupts the morn
  
  With hurried, few, express reports
  
  When March is scarcely on.
  

  The robin is the one
  
  That overflows the noon
  
  With her cherubic quantity,
  
  An April but begun.
  

  The robin is the one
  
  That speechless from her nest
  
  Submits that home and certainty
  
  And sanctity are best.",365,,the robin is the one that interrupts the morn with hurried few express reports when march is scarcely on the robin is the one that overflows the noon with her cherubic quantity an april but begun the robin is the one that speechless from her nest submits that home and certainty and sanctity are best,300
  From cocoon forth a butterfly,"  From cocoon forth a butterfly
  
  As lady from her door
  
  Emerged — a summer afternoon —
  
  Repairing everywhere,
  

  Without design, that I could trace,
  
  Except to stray abroad
  
  On miscellaneous enterprise
  
  The clovers understood.
  

  Her pretty parasol was seen
  
  Contracting in a field
  
  Where men made hay, then struggling hard
  
  With an opposing cloud,
  

  Where parties, phantom as herself,
  
  To Nowhere seemed to go
  
  In purposeless circumference,
  
  As 't were a tropic show.
  

  And notwithstanding bee that worked,
  
  And flower that zealous blew,
  
  This audience of idleness
  
  Disdained them, from the sky,
  

  Till sundown crept, a steady tide,
  
  And men that made the hay,
  
  And afternoon, and butterfly,
  
  Extinguished in its sea.",808,,from cocoon forth a butterfly as lady from her door emerged a summer afternoon repairing everywhere without design that i could trace except to stray abroad on miscellaneous enterprise the clovers understood her pretty parasol was seen contracting in a field where men made hay then struggling hard with an opposing cloud where parties phantom as herself to nowhere seemed to go in purposeless circumference as t were a tropic show and notwithstanding bee that worked and flower that zealous blew this audience of idleness disdained them from the sky till sundown crept a steady tide and men that made the hay and afternoon and butterfly extinguished in its sea,661
"  Before you thought of spring,","  Before you thought of spring,
  
  Except as a surmise,
  
  You see, God bless his suddenness,
  
  A fellow in the skies
  
  Of independent hues,
  
  A little weather-worn,
  
  Inspiriting habiliments
  
  Of indigo and brown.
  

  With specimens of song,
  
  As if for you to choose,
  
  Discretion in the interval,
  
  With gay delays he goes
  
  To some superior tree
  
  Without a single leaf,
  
  And shouts for joy to nobody
  
  But his seraphic self!",472,,before you thought of spring except as a surmise you see god bless his suddenness a fellow in the skies of independent hues a little weatherworn inspiriting habiliments of indigo and brown with specimens of song as if for you to choose discretion in the interval with gay delays he goes to some superior tree without a single leaf and shouts for joy to nobody but his seraphic self,381
  An altered look about the hills;,"  An altered look about the hills;
  
  A Tyrian light the village fills;
  
  A wider sunrise in the dawn;
  
  A deeper twilight on the lawn;
  
  A print of a vermilion foot;
  
  A purple finger on the slope;
  
  A flippant fly upon the pane;
  
  A spider at his trade again;
  
  An added strut in chanticleer;
  
  A flower expected everywhere;
  
  An axe shrill singing in the woods;
  
  Fern-odors on untravelled roads, —
  
  All this, and more I cannot tell,
  
  A furtive look you know as well,
  
  And Nicodemus' mystery
  
  Receives its annual reply.",570,,an altered look about the hills a tyrian light the village fills a wider sunrise in the dawn a deeper twilight on the lawn a print of a vermilion foot a purple finger on the slope a flippant fly upon the pane a spider at his trade again an added strut in chanticleer a flower expected everywhere an axe shrill singing in the woods fernodors on untravelled roads all this and more i cannot tell a furtive look you know as well and nicodemus mystery receives its annual reply,473
"  ""Whose are the little beds,"" I asked,","  ""Whose are the little beds,"" I asked,
  
  ""Which in the valleys lie?""
  
  Some shook their heads, and others smiled,
  
  And no one made reply.
  

  ""Perhaps they did not hear,"" I said;
  
  ""I will inquire again.
  
  Whose are the beds, the tiny beds
  
  So thick upon the plain?""
  

  ""'T is daisy in the shortest;
  
  A little farther on,
  
  Nearest the door to wake the first,
  
  Little leontodon.
  

  ""'T is iris, sir, and aster,
  
  Anemone and bell,
  
  Batschia in the blanket red,
  
  And chubby daffodil.""
  

  Meanwhile at many cradles
  
  Her busy foot she plied,
  
  Humming the quaintest lullaby
  
  That ever rocked a child.
  

  ""Hush! Epigea wakens! —
  
  The crocus stirs her lids,
  
  Rhodora's cheek is crimson, —
  
  She's dreaming of the woods.""
  

  Then, turning from them, reverent,
  
  ""Their bed-time 't is,"" she said;
  
  ""The bumble-bees will wake them
  
  When April woods are red.""",943,,whose are the little beds i asked which in the valleys lie some shook their heads and others smiled and no one made reply perhaps they did not hear i said i will inquire again whose are the beds the tiny beds so thick upon the plain t is daisy in the shortest a little farther on nearest the door to wake the first little leontodon t is iris sir and aster anemone and bell batschia in the blanket red and chubby daffodil meanwhile at many cradles her busy foot she plied humming the quaintest lullaby that ever rocked a child hush epigea wakens the crocus stirs her lids rhodoras cheek is crimson shes dreaming of the woods then turning from them reverent their bedtime t is she said the bumblebees will wake them when april woods are red,738
"  Pigmy seraphs gone astray,","  Pigmy seraphs gone astray,
  
  Velvet people from Vevay,
  
  Belles from some lost summer day,
  
  Bees' exclusive coterie.
  
  Paris could not lay the fold
  
  Belted down with emerald;
  
  Venice could not show a cheek
  
  Of a tint so lustrous meek.
  
  Never such an ambuscade
  
  As of brier and leaf displayed
  
  For my little damask maid.
  
  I had rather wear her grace
  
  Than an earl's distinguished face;
  
  I had rather dwell like her
  
  Than be Duke of Exeter
  
  Royalty enough for me
  
  To subdue the bumble-bee!",550,,pigmy seraphs gone astray velvet people from vevay belles from some lost summer day bees exclusive coterie paris could not lay the fold belted down with emerald venice could not show a cheek of a tint so lustrous meek never such an ambuscade as of brier and leaf displayed for my little damask maid i had rather wear her grace than an earls distinguished face i had rather dwell like her than be duke of exeter royalty enough for me to subdue the bumblebee,456
  To hear an oriole sing,"  To hear an oriole sing
  
  May be a common thing,
  
  Or only a divine.
  

  It is not of the bird
  
  Who sings the same, unheard,
  
  As unto crowd.
  

  The fashion of the ear
  
  Attireth that it hear
  
  In dun or fair.
  

  So whether it be rune,
  
  Or whether it be none,
  
  Is of within;
  

  The ""tune is in the tree,""
  
  The sceptic showeth me;
  
  ""No, sir! In thee!""",397,,to hear an oriole sing may be a common thing or only a divine it is not of the bird who sings the same unheard as unto crowd the fashion of the ear attireth that it hear in dun or fair so whether it be rune or whether it be none is of within the tune is in the tree the sceptic showeth me no sir in thee,303
"  One of the ones that Midas touched,","  One of the ones that Midas touched,
  
  Who failed to touch us all,
  
  Was that confiding prodigal,
  
  The blissful oriole.
  

  So drunk, he disavows it
  
  With badinage divine;
  
  So dazzling, we mistake him
  
  For an alighting mine.
  

  A pleader, a dissembler,
  
  An epicure, a thief, —
  
  Betimes an oratorio,
  
  An ecstasy in chief;
  

  The Jesuit of orchards,
  
  He cheats as he enchants
  
  Of an entire attar
  
  For his decamping wants.
  

  The splendor of a Burmah,
  
  The meteor of birds,
  
  Departing like a pageant
  
  Of ballads and of bards.
  

  I never thought that Jason sought
  
  For any golden fleece;
  
  But then I am a rural man,
  
  With thoughts that make for peace.
  

  But if there were a Jason,
  
  Tradition suffer me
  
  Behold his lost emolument
  
  Upon the apple-tree.",847,,one of the ones that midas touched who failed to touch us all was that confiding prodigal the blissful oriole so drunk he disavows it with badinage divine so dazzling we mistake him for an alighting mine a pleader a dissembler an epicure a thief betimes an oratorio an ecstasy in chief the jesuit of orchards he cheats as he enchants of an entire attar for his decamping wants the splendor of a burmah the meteor of birds departing like a pageant of ballads and of bards i never thought that jason sought for any golden fleece but then i am a rural man with thoughts that make for peace but if there were a jason tradition suffer me behold his lost emolument upon the appletree,677
"  I dreaded that first robin so,","  I dreaded that first robin so,
  
  But he is mastered now,
  
  And I 'm accustomed to him grown, —
  
  He hurts a little, though.
  

  I thought if I could only live
  
  Till that first shout got by,
  
  Not all pianos in the woods
  
  Had power to mangle me.
  

  I dared not meet the daffodils,
  
  For fear their yellow gown
  
  Would pierce me with a fashion
  
  So foreign to my own.
  

  I wished the grass would hurry,
  
  So when 't was time to see,
  
  He 'd be too tall, the tallest one
  
  Could stretch to look at me.
  

  I could not bear the bees should come,
  
  I wished they 'd stay away
  
  In those dim countries where they go:
  
  What word had they for me?
  

  They 're here, though; not a creature failed,
  
  No blossom stayed away
  
  In gentle deference to me,
  
  The Queen of Calvary.
  

  Each one salutes me as he goes,
  
  And I my childish plumes
  
  Lift, in bereaved acknowledgment
  
  Of their unthinking drums.",975,,i dreaded that first robin so but he is mastered now and i m accustomed to him grown he hurts a little though i thought if i could only live till that first shout got by not all pianos in the woods had power to mangle me i dared not meet the daffodils for fear their yellow gown would pierce me with a fashion so foreign to my own i wished the grass would hurry so when t was time to see he d be too tall the tallest one could stretch to look at me i could not bear the bees should come i wished they d stay away in those dim countries where they go what word had they for me they re here though not a creature failed no blossom stayed away in gentle deference to me the queen of calvary each one salutes me as he goes and i my childish plumes lift in bereaved acknowledgment of their unthinking drums,801
  A route of evanescence,"  A route of evanescence
  
  With a revolving wheel;
  
  A resonance of emerald,
  
  A rush of cochineal;
  
  And every blossom on the bush
  
  Adjusts its tumbled head, —
  
  The mail from Tunis, probably,
  
  An easy morning's ride.",241,,a route of evanescence with a revolving wheel a resonance of emerald a rush of cochineal and every blossom on the bush adjusts its tumbled head the mail from tunis probably an easy mornings ride,194
  The skies can't keep their secret!,"  The skies can't keep their secret!
  
  They tell it to the hills —
  
  The hills just tell the orchards —
  
  And they the daffodils!
  

  A bird, by chance, that goes that way
  
  Soft overheard the whole.
  
  If I should bribe the little bird,
  
  Who knows but she would tell?
  

  I think I won't, however,
  
  It's finer not to know;
  
  If summer were an axiom,
  
  What sorcery had snow?
  

  So keep your secret, Father!
  
  I would not, if I could,
  
  Know what the sapphire fellows do,
  
  In your new-fashioned world!",546,,the skies cant keep their secret they tell it to the hills the hills just tell the orchards and they the daffodils a bird by chance that goes that way soft overheard the whole if i should bribe the little bird who knows but she would tell i think i wont however its finer not to know if summer were an axiom what sorcery had snow so keep your secret father i would not if i could know what the sapphire fellows do in your newfashioned world,440
"  Who robbed the woods,","  Who robbed the woods,
  
  The trusting woods?
  
  The unsuspecting trees
  
  Brought out their burrs and mosses
  
  His fantasy to please.
  
  He scanned their trinkets, curious,
  
  He grasped, he bore away.
  
  What will the solemn hemlock,
  
  What will the fir-tree say?",284,,who robbed the woods the trusting woods the unsuspecting trees brought out their burrs and mosses his fantasy to please he scanned their trinkets curious he grasped he bore away what will the solemn hemlock what will the firtree say,232
  Two butterflies went out at noon,"  Two butterflies went out at noon
  
  And waltzed above a stream,
  
  Then stepped straight through the firmament
  
  And rested on a beam;
  

  And then together bore away
  
  Upon a shining sea, —
  
  Though never yet, in any port,
  
  Their coming mentioned be.
  

  If spoken by the distant bird,
  
  If met in ether sea
  
  By frigate or by merchantman,
  
  Report was not to me.",396,,two butterflies went out at noon and waltzed above a stream then stepped straight through the firmament and rested on a beam and then together bore away upon a shining sea though never yet in any port their coming mentioned be if spoken by the distant bird if met in ether sea by frigate or by merchantman report was not to me,326
"  I started early, took my dog,","  I started early, took my dog,
  
  And visited the sea;
  
  The mermaids in the basement
  
  Came out to look at me,
  

  And frigates in the upper floor
  
  Extended hempen hands,
  
  Presuming me to be a mouse
  
  Aground, upon the sands.
  

  But no man moved me till the tide
  
  Went past my simple shoe,
  
  And past my apron and my belt,
  
  And past my bodice too,
  

  And made as he would eat me up
  
  As wholly as a dew
  
  Upon a dandelion's sleeve —
  
  And then I started too.
  

  And he — he followed close behind;
  
  I felt his silver heel
  
  Upon my ankle, — then my shoes
  
  Would overflow with pearl.
  

  Until we met the solid town,
  
  No man he seemed to know;
  
  And bowing with a mighty look
  
  At me, the sea withdrew.",775,,i started early took my dog and visited the sea the mermaids in the basement came out to look at me and frigates in the upper floor extended hempen hands presuming me to be a mouse aground upon the sands but no man moved me till the tide went past my simple shoe and past my apron and my belt and past my bodice too and made as he would eat me up as wholly as a dew upon a dandelions sleeve and then i started too and he he followed close behind i felt his silver heel upon my ankle then my shoes would overflow with pearl until we met the solid town no man he seemed to know and bowing with a mighty look at me the sea withdrew,628
"  Arcturus is his other name, —","  Arcturus is his other name, —
  
  I'd rather call him star!
  
  It's so unkind of science
  
  To go and interfere!
  

  I pull a flower from the woods, —
  
  A monster with a glass
  
  Computes the stamens in a breath,
  
  And has her in a class.
  

  Whereas I took the butterfly
  
  Aforetime in my hat,
  
  He sits erect in cabinets,
  
  The clover-bells forgot.
  

  What once was heaven, is zenith now.
  
  Where I proposed to go
  
  When time's brief masquerade was done,
  
  Is mapped, and charted too!
  

  What if the poles should frisk about
  
  And stand upon their heads!
  
  I hope I 'm ready for the worst,
  
  Whatever prank betides!
  

  Perhaps the kingdom of Heaven 's changed!
  
  I hope the children there
  
  Won't be new-fashioned when I come,
  
  And laugh at me, and stare!
  

  I hope the father in the skies
  
  Will lift his little girl, —
  
  Old-fashioned, naughty, everything, —
  
  Over the stile of pearl!",966,,arcturus is his other name id rather call him star its so unkind of science to go and interfere i pull a flower from the woods a monster with a glass computes the stamens in a breath and has her in a class whereas i took the butterfly aforetime in my hat he sits erect in cabinets the cloverbells forgot what once was heaven is zenith now where i proposed to go when times brief masquerade was done is mapped and charted too what if the poles should frisk about and stand upon their heads i hope i m ready for the worst whatever prank betides perhaps the kingdom of heaven s changed i hope the children there wont be newfashioned when i come and laugh at me and stare i hope the father in the skies will lift his little girl oldfashioned naughty everything over the stile of pearl,780
"  An awful tempest mashed the air,","  An awful tempest mashed the air,
  
  The clouds were gaunt and few;
  
  A black, as of a spectre's cloak,
  
  Hid heaven and earth from view.
  

  The creatures chuckled on the roofs
  
  And whistled in the air,
  
  And shook their fists and gnashed their teeth.
  
  And swung their frenzied hair.
  

  The morning lit, the birds arose;
  
  The monster's faded eyes
  
  Turned slowly to his native coast,
  
  And peace was Paradise!",445,,an awful tempest mashed the air the clouds were gaunt and few a black as of a spectres cloak hid heaven and earth from view the creatures chuckled on the roofs and whistled in the air and shook their fists and gnashed their teeth and swung their frenzied hair the morning lit the birds arose the monsters faded eyes turned slowly to his native coast and peace was paradise,372
"  An everywhere of silver,","  An everywhere of silver,
  
  With ropes of sand
  
  To keep it from effacing
  
  The track called land.",108,,an everywhere of silver with ropes of sand to keep it from effacing the track called land,89
  A bird came down the walk:,"  A bird came down the walk:
  
  He did not know I saw;
  
  He bit an angle-worm in halves
  
  And ate the fellow, raw.
  

  And then he drank a dew
  
  From a convenient grass,
  
  And then hopped sidewise to the wall
  
  To let a beetle pass.
  

  He glanced with rapid eyes
  
  That hurried all abroad, —
  
  They looked like frightened beads, I thought;
  
  He stirred his velvet head
  

  Like one in danger; cautious,
  
  I offered him a crumb,
  
  And he unrolled his feathers
  
  And rowed him softer home
  

  Than oars divide the ocean,
  
  Too silver for a seam,
  
  Or butterflies, off banks of noon,
  
  Leap, splashless, as they swim.",667,,a bird came down the walk he did not know i saw he bit an angleworm in halves and ate the fellow raw and then he drank a dew from a convenient grass and then hopped sidewise to the wall to let a beetle pass he glanced with rapid eyes that hurried all abroad they looked like frightened beads i thought he stirred his velvet head like one in danger cautious i offered him a crumb and he unrolled his feathers and rowed him softer home than oars divide the ocean too silver for a seam or butterflies off banks of noon leap splashless as they swim,544
  A narrow fellow in the grass,"  A narrow fellow in the grass
  
  Occasionally rides;
  
  You may have met him, — did you not,
  
  His notice sudden is.
  

  The grass divides as with a comb,
  
  A spotted shaft is seen;
  
  And then it closes at your feet
  
  And opens further on.
  

  He likes a boggy acre,
  
  A floor too cool for corn.
  
  Yet when a child, and barefoot,
  
  I more than once, at morn,
  

  Have passed, I thought, a whip-lash
  
  Unbraiding in the sun, —
  
  When, stooping to secure it,
  
  It wrinkled, and was gone.
  

  Several of nature's people
  
  I know, and they know me;
  
  I feel for them a transport
  
  Of cordiality;
  

  But never met this fellow,
  
  Attended or alone,
  
  Without a tighter breathing,
  
  And zero at the bone.",761,,a narrow fellow in the grass occasionally rides you may have met him did you not his notice sudden is the grass divides as with a comb a spotted shaft is seen and then it closes at your feet and opens further on he likes a boggy acre a floor too cool for corn yet when a child and barefoot i more than once at morn have passed i thought a whiplash unbraiding in the sun when stooping to secure it it wrinkled and was gone several of natures people i know and they know me i feel for them a transport of cordiality but never met this fellow attended or alone without a tighter breathing and zero at the bone,606
"  The mushroom is the elf of plants,","  The mushroom is the elf of plants,
  
  At evening it is not;
  
  At morning in a truffled hut
  
  It stops upon a spot
  

  As if it tarried always;
  
  And yet its whole career
  
  Is shorter than a snake's delay,
  
  And fleeter than a tare.
  

  'T is vegetation's juggler,
  
  The germ of alibi;
  
  Doth like a bubble antedate,
  
  And like a bubble hie.
  

  I feel as if the grass were pleased
  
  To have it intermit;
  
  The surreptitious scion
  
  Of summer's circumspect.
  

  Had nature any outcast face,
  
  Could she a son contemn,
  
  Had nature an Iscariot,
  
  That mushroom, — it is him.",626,,the mushroom is the elf of plants at evening it is not at morning in a truffled hut it stops upon a spot as if it tarried always and yet its whole career is shorter than a snakes delay and fleeter than a tare t is vegetations juggler the germ of alibi doth like a bubble antedate and like a bubble hie i feel as if the grass were pleased to have it intermit the surreptitious scion of summers circumspect had nature any outcast face could she a son contemn had nature an iscariot that mushroom it is him,503
  There came a wind like a bugle;,"  There came a wind like a bugle;
  
  It quivered through the grass,
  
  And a green chill upon the heat
  
  So ominous did pass
  
  We barred the windows and the doors
  
  As from an emerald ghost;
  
  The doom's electric moccason
  
  That very instant passed.
  
  On a strange mob of panting trees,
  
  And fences fled away,
  
  And rivers where the houses ran
  
  The living looked that day.
  
  The bell within the steeple wild
  
  The flying tidings whirled.
  
  How much can come
  
  And much can go,
  
  And yet abide the world!",551,,there came a wind like a bugle it quivered through the grass and a green chill upon the heat so ominous did pass we barred the windows and the doors as from an emerald ghost the dooms electric moccason that very instant passed on a strange mob of panting trees and fences fled away and rivers where the houses ran the living looked that day the bell within the steeple wild the flying tidings whirled how much can come and much can go and yet abide the world,458
  A spider sewed at night,"  A spider sewed at night
  
  Without a light
  
  Upon an arc of white.
  
  If ruff it was of dame
  
  Or shroud of gnome,
  
  Himself, himself inform.
  
  Of immortality
  
  His strategy
  
  Was physiognomy.",216,,a spider sewed at night without a light upon an arc of white if ruff it was of dame or shroud of gnome himself himself inform of immortality his strategy was physiognomy,169
  I know a place where summer strives,"  I know a place where summer strives
  
  With such a practised frost,
  
  She each year leads her daisies back,
  
  Recording briefly, ""Lost.""
  

  But when the south wind stirs the pools
  
  And struggles in the lanes,
  
  Her heart misgives her for her vow,
  
  And she pours soft refrains
  

  Into the lap of adamant,
  
  And spices, and the dew,
  
  That stiffens quietly to quartz,
  
  Upon her amber shoe.",424,,i know a place where summer strives with such a practised frost she each year leads her daisies back recording briefly lost but when the south wind stirs the pools and struggles in the lanes her heart misgives her for her vow and she pours soft refrains into the lap of adamant and spices and the dew that stiffens quietly to quartz upon her amber shoe,352
  The one that could repeat the summer day,"  The one that could repeat the summer day
  
  Were greater than itself, though he
  
  Minutest of mankind might be.
  
  And who could reproduce the sun,
  
  At period of going down —
  
  The lingering and the stain, I mean —
  
  When Orient has been outgrown,
  
  And Occident becomes unknown,
  
  His name remain.",323,,the one that could repeat the summer day were greater than itself though he minutest of mankind might be and who could reproduce the sun at period of going down the lingering and the stain i mean when orient has been outgrown and occident becomes unknown his name remain,270
"  The wind tapped like a tired man,","  The wind tapped like a tired man,
  
  And like a host, ""Come in,""
  
  I boldly answered; entered then
  
  My residence within
  

  A rapid, footless guest,
  
  To offer whom a chair
  
  Were as impossible as hand
  
  A sofa to the air.
  

  No bone had he to bind him,
  
  His speech was like the push
  
  Of numerous humming-birds at once
  
  From a superior bush.
  

  His countenance a billow,
  
  His fingers, if he pass,
  
  Let go a music, as of tunes
  
  Blown tremulous in glass.
  

  He visited, still flitting;
  
  Then, like a timid man,
  
  Again he tapped — 't was flurriedly —
  
  And I became alone.",635,,the wind tapped like a tired man and like a host come in i boldly answered entered then my residence within a rapid footless guest to offer whom a chair were as impossible as hand a sofa to the air no bone had he to bind him his speech was like the push of numerous hummingbirds at once from a superior bush his countenance a billow his fingers if he pass let go a music as of tunes blown tremulous in glass he visited still flitting then like a timid man again he tapped t was flurriedly and i became alone,507
  Nature rarer uses yellow,"  Nature rarer uses yellow
  
  Than another hue;
  
  Saves she all of that for sunsets, —
  
  Prodigal of blue,
  

  Spending scarlet like a woman,
  
  Yellow she affords
  
  Only scantly and selectly,
  
  Like a lover's words.",234,,nature rarer uses yellow than another hue saves she all of that for sunsets prodigal of blue spending scarlet like a woman yellow she affords only scantly and selectly like a lovers words,187
"  The leaves, like women, interchange","  The leaves, like women, interchange
  
  Sagacious confidence;
  
  Somewhat of nods, and somewhat of
  
  Portentous inference,
  

  The parties in both cases
  
  Enjoining secrecy, —
  
  Inviolable compact
  
  To notoriety.",231,,the leaves like women interchange sagacious confidence somewhat of nods and somewhat of portentous inference the parties in both cases enjoining secrecy inviolable compact to notoriety,184
  How happy is the little stone,"  How happy is the little stone
  
  That rambles in the road alone,
  
  And doesn't care about careers,
  
  And exigencies never fears;
  
  Whose coat of elemental brown
  
  A passing universe put on;
  
  And independent as the sun,
  
  Associates or glows alone,
  
  Fulfilling absolute decree
  
  In casual simplicity.",329,,how happy is the little stone that rambles in the road alone and doesnt care about careers and exigencies never fears whose coat of elemental brown a passing universe put on and independent as the sun associates or glows alone fulfilling absolute decree in casual simplicity,274
"  It sounded as if the streets were running,","  It sounded as if the streets were running,
  
  And then the streets stood still.
  
  Eclipse was all we could see at the window,
  
  And awe was all we could feel.
  

  By and by the boldest stole out of his covert,
  
  To see if time was there.
  
  Nature was in her beryl apron,
  
  Mixing fresher air.",313,,it sounded as if the streets were running and then the streets stood still eclipse was all we could see at the window and awe was all we could feel by and by the boldest stole out of his covert to see if time was there nature was in her beryl apron mixing fresher air,267
  The rat is the concisest tenant.,"  The rat is the concisest tenant.
  
  He pays no rent, —
  
  Repudiates the obligation,
  
  On schemes intent.
  

  Balking our wit
  
  To sound or circumvent,
  
  Hate cannot harm
  
  A foe so reticent.
  

  Neither decree
  
  Prohibits him,
  
  Lawful as
  
  Equilibrium.",285,,the rat is the concisest tenant he pays no rent repudiates the obligation on schemes intent balking our wit to sound or circumvent hate cannot harm a foe so reticent neither decree prohibits him lawful as equilibrium,216
"  Frequently the woods are pink,","  Frequently the woods are pink,
  
  Frequently are brown;
  
  Frequently the hills undress
  
  Behind my native town.
  

  Oft a head is crested
  
  I was wont to see,
  
  And as oft a cranny
  
  Where it used to be.
  

  And the earth, they tell me,
  
  On its axis turned, —
  
  Wonderful rotation
  
  By but twelve performed!",340,,frequently the woods are pink frequently are brown frequently the hills undress behind my native town oft a head is crested i was wont to see and as oft a cranny where it used to be and the earth they tell me on its axis turned wonderful rotation by but twelve performed,270
  The wind begun to rock the grass,"  The wind begun to rock the grass
  
  With threatening tunes and low, —
  
  He flung a menace at the earth,
  
  A menace at the sky.
  

  The leaves unhooked themselves from trees
  
  And started all abroad;
  
  The dust did scoop itself like hands
  
  And throw away the road.
  

  The wagons quickened on the streets,
  
  The thunder hurried slow;
  
  The lightning showed a yellow beak,
  
  And then a livid claw.
  

  The birds put up the bars to nests,
  
  The cattle fled to barns;
  
  There came one drop of giant rain,
  
  And then, as if the hands
  

  That held the dams had parted hold,
  
  The waters wrecked the sky,
  
  But overlooked my father's house,
  
  Just quartering a tree.",715,,the wind begun to rock the grass with threatening tunes and low he flung a menace at the earth a menace at the sky the leaves unhooked themselves from trees and started all abroad the dust did scoop itself like hands and throw away the road the wagons quickened on the streets the thunder hurried slow the lightning showed a yellow beak and then a livid claw the birds put up the bars to nests the cattle fled to barns there came one drop of giant rain and then as if the hands that held the dams had parted hold the waters wrecked the sky but overlooked my fathers house just quartering a tree,594
"  South winds jostle them,","  South winds jostle them,
  
  Bumblebees come,
  
  Hover, hesitate,
  
  Drink, and are gone.
  

  Butterflies pause
  
  On their passage Cashmere;
  
  I, softly plucking,
  
  Present them here!",201,,south winds jostle them bumblebees come hover hesitate drink and are gone butterflies pause on their passage cashmere i softly plucking present them here,153
  Where ships of purple gently toss,"  Where ships of purple gently toss
  
  On seas of daffodil,
  
  Fantastic sailors mingle,
  
  And then — the wharf is still.",128,,where ships of purple gently toss on seas of daffodil fantastic sailors mingle and then the wharf is still,106
"  She sweeps with many-colored brooms,","  She sweeps with many-colored brooms,
  
  And leaves the shreds behind;
  
  Oh, housewife in the evening west,
  
  Come back, and dust the pond!
  

  You dropped a purple ravelling in,
  
  You dropped an amber thread;
  
  And now you 've littered all the East
  
  With duds of emerald!
  

  And still she plies her spotted brooms,
  
  And still the aprons fly,
  
  Till brooms fade softly into stars —
  
  And then I come away.",439,,she sweeps with manycolored brooms and leaves the shreds behind oh housewife in the evening west come back and dust the pond you dropped a purple ravelling in you dropped an amber thread and now you ve littered all the east with duds of emerald and still she plies her spotted brooms and still the aprons fly till brooms fade softly into stars and then i come away,364
  Like mighty footlights burned the red,"  Like mighty footlights burned the red
  
  At bases of the trees, —
  
  The far theatricals of day
  
  Exhibiting to these.
  

  'T was universe that did applaud
  
  While, chiefest of the crowd,
  
  Enabled by his royal dress,
  
  Myself distinguished God.",265,,like mighty footlights burned the red at bases of the trees the far theatricals of day exhibiting to these t was universe that did applaud while chiefest of the crowd enabled by his royal dress myself distinguished god,218
"  Bring me the sunset in a cup,","  Bring me the sunset in a cup,
  
  Reckon the morning's flagons up,
  
  And say how many dew;
  
  Tell me how far the morning leaps,
  
  Tell me what time the weaver sleeps
  
  Who spun the breadths of blue!
  

  Write me how many notes there be
  
  In the new robin's ecstasy
  
  Among astonished boughs;
  
  How many trips the tortoise makes,
  
  How many cups the bee partakes, —
  
  The debauchee of dews!
  

  Also, who laid the rainbow's piers,
  
  Also, who leads the docile spheres
  
  By withes of supple blue?
  
  Whose fingers string the stalactite,
  
  Who counts the wampum of the night,
  
  To see that none is due?
  

  Who built this little Alban house
  
  And shut the windows down so close
  
  My spirit cannot see?
  
  Who 'll let me out some gala day,
  
  With implements to fly away,
  
  Passing pomposity?",851,,bring me the sunset in a cup reckon the mornings flagons up and say how many dew tell me how far the morning leaps tell me what time the weaver sleeps who spun the breadths of blue write me how many notes there be in the new robins ecstasy among astonished boughs how many trips the tortoise makes how many cups the bee partakes the debauchee of dews also who laid the rainbows piers also who leads the docile spheres by withes of supple blue whose fingers string the stalactite who counts the wampum of the night to see that none is due who built this little alban house and shut the windows down so close my spirit cannot see who ll let me out some gala day with implements to fly away passing pomposity,705
"  Blazing in gold and quenching in purple,","  Blazing in gold and quenching in purple,
  
  Leaping like leopards to the sky,
  
  Then at the feet of the old horizon
  
  Laying her spotted face, to die;
  

  Stooping as low as the otter's window,
  
  Touching the roof and tinting the barn,
  
  Kissing her bonnet to the meadow, —
  
  And the juggler of day is gone!",328,,blazing in gold and quenching in purple leaping like leopards to the sky then at the feet of the old horizon laying her spotted face to die stooping as low as the otters window touching the roof and tinting the barn kissing her bonnet to the meadow and the juggler of day is gone,279
"  Farther in summer than the birds,","  Farther in summer than the birds,
  
  Pathetic from the grass,
  
  A minor nation celebrates
  
  Its unobtrusive mass.
  

  No ordinance is seen,
  
  So gradual the grace,
  
  A pensive custom it becomes,
  
  Enlarging loneliness.
  

  Antiquest felt at noon
  
  When August, burning low,
  
  Calls forth this spectral canticle,
  
  Repose to typify.
  

  Remit as yet no grace,
  
  No furrow on the glow,
  
  Yet a druidic difference
  
  Enhances nature now.",476,,farther in summer than the birds pathetic from the grass a minor nation celebrates its unobtrusive mass no ordinance is seen so gradual the grace a pensive custom it becomes enlarging loneliness antiquest felt at noon when august burning low calls forth this spectral canticle repose to typify remit as yet no grace no furrow on the glow yet a druidic difference enhances nature now,382
  As imperceptibly as grief,"  As imperceptibly as grief
  
  The summer lapsed away, —
  
  Too imperceptible, at last,
  
  To seem like perfidy.
  

  A quietness distilled,
  
  As twilight long begun,
  
  Or Nature, spending with herself
  
  Sequestered afternoon.
  

  The dusk drew earlier in,
  
  The morning foreign shone, —
  
  A courteous, yet harrowing grace,
  
  As guest who would be gone.
  

  And thus, without a wing,
  
  Or service of a keel,
  
  Our summer made her light escape
  
  Into the beautiful.",502,,as imperceptibly as grief the summer lapsed away too imperceptible at last to seem like perfidy a quietness distilled as twilight long begun or nature spending with herself sequestered afternoon the dusk drew earlier in the morning foreign shone a courteous yet harrowing grace as guest who would be gone and thus without a wing or service of a keel our summer made her light escape into the beautiful,401
"  It can't be summer, — that got through;","  It can't be summer, — that got through;
  
  It 's early yet for spring;
  
  There 's that long town of white to cross
  
  Before the blackbirds sing.
  

  It can't be dying, — it's too rouge, —
  
  The dead shall go in white.
  
  So sunset shuts my question down
  
  With clasps of chrysolite.",302,,it cant be summer that got through it s early yet for spring there s that long town of white to cross before the blackbirds sing it cant be dying its too rouge the dead shall go in white so sunset shuts my question down with clasps of chrysolite,245
"  The gentian weaves her fringes,","  The gentian weaves her fringes,
  
  The maple's loom is red.
  
  My departing blossoms
  
  Obviate parade.
  

  A brief, but patient illness,
  
  An hour to prepare;
  
  And one, below this morning,
  
  Is where the angels are.
  

  It was a short procession, —
  
  The bobolink was there,
  
  An aged bee addressed us,
  
  And then we knelt in prayer.
  

  We trust that she was willing, —
  
  We ask that we may be.
  
  Summer, sister, seraph,
  
  Let us go with thee!
  

  In the name of the bee
  
  And of the butterfly
  
  And of the breeze, amen!",572,,the gentian weaves her fringes the maples loom is red my departing blossoms obviate parade a brief but patient illness an hour to prepare and one below this morning is where the angels are it was a short procession the bobolink was there an aged bee addressed us and then we knelt in prayer we trust that she was willing we ask that we may be summer sister seraph let us go with thee in the name of the bee and of the butterfly and of the breeze amen,450
  God made a little gentian;,"  God made a little gentian;
  
  It tried to be a rose
  
  And failed, and all the summer laughed.
  
  But just before the snows
  
  There came a purple creature
  
  That ravished all the hill;
  
  And summer hid her forehead,
  
  And mockery was still.
  
  The frosts were her condition;
  
  The Tyrian would not come
  
  Until the North evoked it.
  
  ""Creator! shall I bloom?""",390,,god made a little gentian it tried to be a rose and failed and all the summer laughed but just before the snows there came a purple creature that ravished all the hill and summer hid her forehead and mockery was still the frosts were her condition the tyrian would not come until the north evoked it creator shall i bloom,321
"  Besides the autumn poets sing,","  Besides the autumn poets sing,
  
  A few prosaic days
  
  A little this side of the snow
  
  And that side of the haze.
  

  A few incisive mornings,
  
  A few ascetic eyes, —
  
  Gone Mr. Bryant's golden-rod,
  
  And Mr. Thomson's sheaves.
  

  Still is the bustle in the brook,
  
  Sealed are the spicy valves;
  
  Mesmeric fingers softly touch
  
  The eyes of many elves.
  

  Perhaps a squirrel may remain,
  
  My sentiments to share.
  
  Grant me, O Lord, a sunny mind,
  
  Thy windy will to bear!",519,,besides the autumn poets sing a few prosaic days a little this side of the snow and that side of the haze a few incisive mornings a few ascetic eyes gone mr bryants goldenrod and mr thomsons sheaves still is the bustle in the brook sealed are the spicy valves mesmeric fingers softly touch the eyes of many elves perhaps a squirrel may remain my sentiments to share grant me o lord a sunny mind thy windy will to bear,417
"  It sifts from leaden sieves,","  It sifts from leaden sieves,
  
  It powders all the wood,
  
  It fills with alabaster wool
  
  The wrinkles of the road.
  

  It makes an even face
  
  Of mountain and of plain, —
  
  Unbroken forehead from the east
  
  Unto the east again.
  

  It reaches to the fence,
  
  It wraps it, rail by rail,
  
  Till it is lost in fleeces;
  
  It flings a crystal veil
  

  On stump and stack and stem, —
  
  The summer's empty room,
  
  Acres of seams where harvests were,
  
  Recordless, but for them.
  

  It ruffles wrists of posts,
  
  As ankles of a queen, —
  
  Then stills its artisans like ghosts,
  
  Denying they have been.",649,,it sifts from leaden sieves it powders all the wood it fills with alabaster wool the wrinkles of the road it makes an even face of mountain and of plain unbroken forehead from the east unto the east again it reaches to the fence it wraps it rail by rail till it is lost in fleeces it flings a crystal veil on stump and stack and stem the summers empty room acres of seams where harvests were recordless but for them it ruffles wrists of posts as ankles of a queen then stills its artisans like ghosts denying they have been,523
  No brigadier throughout the year,"  No brigadier throughout the year
  
  So civic as the jay.
  
  A neighbor and a warrior too,
  
  With shrill felicity
  

  Pursuing winds that censure us
  
  A February day,
  
  The brother of the universe
  
  Was never blown away.
  

  The snow and he are intimate;
  
  I 've often seen them play
  
  When heaven looked upon us all
  
  With such severity,
  

  I felt apology were due
  
  To an insulted sky,
  
  Whose pompous frown was nutriment
  
  To their temerity.
  

  The pillow of this daring head
  
  Is pungent evergreens;
  
  His larder — terse and militant —
  
  Unknown, refreshing things;
  

  His character a tonic,
  
  His future a dispute;
  
  Unfair an immortality
  
  That leaves this neighbor out.",742,,no brigadier throughout the year so civic as the jay a neighbor and a warrior too with shrill felicity pursuing winds that censure us a february day the brother of the universe was never blown away the snow and he are intimate i ve often seen them play when heaven looked upon us all with such severity i felt apology were due to an insulted sky whose pompous frown was nutriment to their temerity the pillow of this daring head is pungent evergreens his larder terse and militant unknown refreshing things his character a tonic his future a dispute unfair an immortality that leaves this neighbor out,601
"  Let down the bars, O Death!","  Let down the bars, O Death!
  
  The tired flocks come in
  
  Whose bleating ceases to repeat,
  
  Whose wandering is done.
  

  Thine is the stillest night,
  
  Thine the securest fold;
  
  Too near thou art for seeking thee,
  
  Too tender to be told.",261,,let down the bars o death the tired flocks come in whose bleating ceases to repeat whose wandering is done thine is the stillest night thine the securest fold too near thou art for seeking thee too tender to be told,215
  Going to heaven!,"  Going to heaven!
  
  I don't know when,
  
  Pray do not ask me how, —
  
  Indeed, I 'm too astonished
  
  To think of answering you!
  
  Going to heaven! —
  
  How dim it sounds!
  
  And yet it will be done
  
  As sure as flocks go home at night
  
  Unto the shepherd's arm!
  

  Perhaps you 're going too!
  
  Who knows?
  
  If you should get there first,
  
  Save just a little place for me
  
  Close to the two I lost!
  

  The smallest ""robe"" will fit me,
  
  And just a bit of ""crown;""
  
  For you know we do not mind our dress
  
  When we are going home.
  

  I 'm glad I don't believe it,
  
  For it would stop my breath,
  
  And I 'd like to look a little more
  
  At such a curious earth!
  
  I am glad they did believe it
  
  Whom I have never found
  
  Since the mighty autumn afternoon
  
  I left them in the ground.",856,,going to heaven i dont know when pray do not ask me how indeed i m too astonished to think of answering you going to heaven how dim it sounds and yet it will be done as sure as flocks go home at night unto the shepherds arm perhaps you re going too who knows if you should get there first save just a little place for me close to the two i lost the smallest robe will fit me and just a bit of crown for you know we do not mind our dress when we are going home i m glad i dont believe it for it would stop my breath and i d like to look a little more at such a curious earth i am glad they did believe it whom i have never found since the mighty autumn afternoon i left them in the ground,687
"  At least to pray is left, is left.","  At least to pray is left, is left.
  
  O Jesus! in the air
  
  I know not which thy chamber is, —
  
  I 'm knocking everywhere.
  

  Thou stirrest earthquake in the South,
  
  And maelstrom in the sea;
  
  Say, Jesus Christ of Nazareth,
  
  Hast thou no arm for me?",274,,at least to pray is left is left o jesus in the air i know not which thy chamber is i m knocking everywhere thou stirrest earthquake in the south and maelstrom in the sea say jesus christ of nazareth hast thou no arm for me,223
  Step lightly on this narrow spot!,"  Step lightly on this narrow spot!
  
  The broadest land that grows
  
  Is not so ample as the breast
  
  These emerald seams enclose.
  

  Step lofty; for this name is told
  
  As far as cannon dwell,
  
  Or flag subsist, or fame export
  
  Her deathless syllable.",273,,step lightly on this narrow spot the broadest land that grows is not so ample as the breast these emerald seams enclose step lofty for this name is told as far as cannon dwell or flag subsist or fame export her deathless syllable,229
  Morns like these we parted;,"  Morns like these we parted;
  
  Noons like these she rose,
  
  Fluttering first, then firmer,
  
  To her fair repose.
  

  Never did she lisp it,
  
  And 't was not for me;
  
  She was mute from transport,
  
  I, from agony!
  

  Till the evening, nearing,
  
  One the shutters drew —
  
  Quick! a sharper rustling!
  
  And this linnet flew!",354,,morns like these we parted noons like these she rose fluttering first then firmer to her fair repose never did she lisp it and t was not for me she was mute from transport i from agony till the evening nearing one the shutters drew quick a sharper rustling and this linnet flew,277
  A death-blow is a life-blow to some,"  A death-blow is a life-blow to some
  
  Who, till they died, did not alive become;
  
  Who, had they lived, had died, but when
  
  They died, vitality begun.",162,,a deathblow is a lifeblow to some who till they died did not alive become who had they lived had died but when they died vitality begun,135
"  I read my sentence steadily,","  I read my sentence steadily,
  
  Reviewed it with my eyes,
  
  To see that I made no mistake
  
  In its extremest clause, —
  

  The date, and manner of the shame;
  
  And then the pious form
  
  That ""God have mercy"" on the soul
  
  The jury voted him.
  

  I made my soul familiar
  
  With her extremity,
  
  That at the last it should not be
  
  A novel agony,
  

  But she and Death, acquainted,
  
  Meet tranquilly as friends,
  
  Salute and pass without a hint —
  
  And there the matter ends.",516,,i read my sentence steadily reviewed it with my eyes to see that i made no mistake in its extremest clause the date and manner of the shame and then the pious form that god have mercy on the soul the jury voted him i made my soul familiar with her extremity that at the last it should not be a novel agony but she and death acquainted meet tranquilly as friends salute and pass without a hint and there the matter ends,418
"  I have not told my garden yet,","  I have not told my garden yet,
  
  Lest that should conquer me;
  
  I have not quite the strength now
  
  To break it to the bee.
  

  I will not name it in the street,
  
  For shops would stare, that I,
  
  So shy, so very ignorant,
  
  Should have the face to die.
  

  The hillsides must not know it,
  
  Where I have rambled so,
  
  Nor tell the loving forests
  
  The day that I shall go,
  

  Nor lisp it at the table,
  
  Nor heedless by the way
  
  Hint that within the riddle
  
  One will walk to-day!",527,,i have not told my garden yet lest that should conquer me i have not quite the strength now to break it to the bee i will not name it in the street for shops would stare that i so shy so very ignorant should have the face to die the hillsides must not know it where i have rambled so nor tell the loving forests the day that i shall go nor lisp it at the table nor heedless by the way hint that within the riddle one will walk today,432
"  They dropped like flakes, they dropped like stars,","  They dropped like flakes, they dropped like stars,
  
  Like petals from a rose,
  
  When suddenly across the June
  
  A wind with fingers goes.
  

  They perished in the seamless grass, —
  
  No eye could find the place;
  
  But God on his repealless list
  
  Can summon every face.",291,,they dropped like flakes they dropped like stars like petals from a rose when suddenly across the june a wind with fingers goes they perished in the seamless grass no eye could find the place but god on his repealless list can summon every face,244
  The only ghost I ever saw,"  The only ghost I ever saw
  
  Was dressed in mechlin, — so;
  
  He wore no sandal on his foot,
  
  And stepped like flakes of snow.
  
  His gait was soundless, like the bird,
  
  But rapid, like the roe;
  
  His fashions quaint, mosaic,
  
  Or, haply, mistletoe.
  

  His conversation seldom,
  
  His laughter like the breeze
  
  That dies away in dimples
  
  Among the pensive trees.
  
  Our interview was transient,—
  
  Of me, himself was shy;
  
  And God forbid I look behind
  
  Since that appalling day!",526,,the only ghost i ever saw was dressed in mechlin so he wore no sandal on his foot and stepped like flakes of snow his gait was soundless like the bird but rapid like the roe his fashions quaint mosaic or haply mistletoe his conversation seldom his laughter like the breeze that dies away in dimples among the pensive trees our interview was transient of me himself was shy and god forbid i look behind since that appalling day,426
"  Some, too fragile for winter winds,","  Some, too fragile for winter winds,
  
  The thoughtful grave encloses, —
  
  Tenderly tucking them in from frost
  
  Before their feet are cold.
  

  Never the treasures in her nest
  
  The cautious grave exposes,
  
  Building where schoolboy dare not look
  
  And sportsman is not bold.
  

  This covert have all the children
  
  Early aged, and often cold, —
  
  Sparrows unnoticed by the Father;
  
  Lambs for whom time had not a fold.",451,,some too fragile for winter winds the thoughtful grave encloses tenderly tucking them in from frost before their feet are cold never the treasures in her nest the cautious grave exposes building where schoolboy dare not look and sportsman is not bold this covert have all the children early aged and often cold sparrows unnoticed by the father lambs for whom time had not a fold,378
"  As by the dead we love to sit,","  As by the dead we love to sit,
  
  Become so wondrous dear,
  
  As for the lost we grapple,
  
  Though all the rest are here, —
  

  In broken mathematics
  
  We estimate our prize,
  
  Vast, in its fading ratio,
  
  To our penurious eyes!",248,,as by the dead we love to sit become so wondrous dear as for the lost we grapple though all the rest are here in broken mathematics we estimate our prize vast in its fading ratio to our penurious eyes,200
  Death sets a thing significant,"  Death sets a thing significant
  
  The eye had hurried by,
  
  Except a perished creature
  
  Entreat us tenderly
  

  To ponder little workmanships
  
  In crayon or in wool,
  
  With ""This was last her fingers did,""
  
  Industrious until
  

  The thimble weighed too heavy,
  
  The stitches stopped themselves,
  
  And then 't was put among the dust
  
  Upon the closet shelves.
  

  A book I have, a friend gave,
  
  Whose pencil, here and there,
  
  Had notched the place that pleased him, —
  
  At rest his fingers are.
  

  Now, when I read, I read not,
  
  For interrupting tears
  
  Obliterate the etchings
  
  Too costly for repairs.",662,,death sets a thing significant the eye had hurried by except a perished creature entreat us tenderly to ponder little workmanships in crayon or in wool with this was last her fingers did industrious until the thimble weighed too heavy the stitches stopped themselves and then t was put among the dust upon the closet shelves a book i have a friend gave whose pencil here and there had notched the place that pleased him at rest his fingers are now when i read i read not for interrupting tears obliterate the etchings too costly for repairs,540
"  I went to heaven, —","  I went to heaven, —
  
  'T was a small town,
  
  Lit with a ruby,
  
  Lathed with down.
  
  Stiller than the fields
  
  At the full dew,
  
  Beautiful as pictures
  
  No man drew.
  
  People like the moth,
  
  Of mechlin, frames,
  
  Duties of gossamer,
  
  And eider names.
  
  Almost contented
  
  I could be
  
  'Mong such unique
  
  Society.",362,,i went to heaven t was a small town lit with a ruby lathed with down stiller than the fields at the full dew beautiful as pictures no man drew people like the moth of mechlin frames duties of gossamer and eider names almost contented i could be mong such unique society,269
"  Their height in heaven comforts not,","  Their height in heaven comforts not,
  
  Their glory nought to me;
  
  'T was best imperfect, as it was;
  
  I 'm finite, I can't see.
  

  The house of supposition,
  
  The glimmering frontier
  
  That skirts the acres of perhaps,
  
  To me shows insecure.
  

  The wealth I had contented me;
  
  If 't was a meaner size,
  
  Then I had counted it until
  
  It pleased my narrow eyes
  

  Better than larger values,
  
  However true their show;
  
  This timid life of evidence
  
  Keeps pleading, ""I don't know.""",530,,their height in heaven comforts not their glory nought to me t was best imperfect as it was i m finite i cant see the house of supposition the glimmering frontier that skirts the acres of perhaps to me shows insecure the wealth i had contented me if t was a meaner size then i had counted it until it pleased my narrow eyes better than larger values however true their show this timid life of evidence keeps pleading i dont know,428
  There is a shame of nobleness,"  There is a shame of nobleness
  
  Confronting sudden pelf, —
  
  A finer shame of ecstasy
  
  Convicted of itself.
  

  A best disgrace a brave man feels,
  
  Acknowledged of the brave, —
  
  One more ""Ye Blessed"" to be told;
  
  But this involves the grave.",267,,there is a shame of nobleness confronting sudden pelf a finer shame of ecstasy convicted of itself a best disgrace a brave man feels acknowledged of the brave one more ye blessed to be told but this involves the grave,217
  Triumph may be of several kinds.,"  Triumph may be of several kinds.
  
  There 's triumph in the room
  
  When that old imperator, Death,
  
  By faith is overcome.
  

  There 's triumph of the finer mind
  
  When truth, affronted long,
  
  Advances calm to her supreme,
  
  Her God her only throng.
  

  A triumph when temptation's bribe
  
  Is slowly handed back,
  
  One eye upon the heaven renounced
  
  And one upon the rack.
  

  Severer triumph, by himself
  
  Experienced, who can pass
  
  Acquitted from that naked bar,
  
  Jehovah's countenance!",535,,triumph may be of several kinds there s triumph in the room when that old imperator death by faith is overcome there s triumph of the finer mind when truth affronted long advances calm to her supreme her god her only throng a triumph when temptations bribe is slowly handed back one eye upon the heaven renounced and one upon the rack severer triumph by himself experienced who can pass acquitted from that naked bar jehovahs countenance,437
  Pompless no life can pass away;,"  Pompless no life can pass away;
  
  The lowliest career
  
  To the same pageant wends its way
  
  As that exalted here.
  
  How cordial is the mystery!
  
  The hospitable pall
  
  A ""this way"" beckons spaciously, —
  
  A miracle for all!",246,,pompless no life can pass away the lowliest career to the same pageant wends its way as that exalted here how cordial is the mystery the hospitable pall a this way beckons spaciously a miracle for all,200
"  I noticed people disappeared,","  I noticed people disappeared,
  
  When but a little child, —
  
  Supposed they visited remote,
  
  Or settled regions wild.
  

  Now know I they both visited
  
  And settled regions wild,
  
  But did because they died, — a fact
  
  Withheld the little child!",267,,i noticed people disappeared when but a little child supposed they visited remote or settled regions wild now know i they both visited and settled regions wild but did because they died a fact withheld the little child,218
"  I had no cause to be awake,","  I had no cause to be awake,
  
  My best was gone to sleep,
  
  And morn a new politeness took,
  
  And failed to wake them up,
  

  But called the others clear,
  
  And passed their curtains by.
  
  Sweet morning, when I over-sleep,
  
  Knock, recollect, for me!
  

  I looked at sunrise once,
  
  And then I looked at them,
  
  And wishfulness in me arose
  
  For circumstance the same.
  

  'T was such an ample peace,
  
  It could not hold a sigh, —
  
  'T was Sabbath with the bells divorced,
  
  'T was sunset all the day.
  

  So choosing but a gown
  
  And taking but a prayer,
  
  The only raiment I should need,
  
  I struggled, and was there.",673,,i had no cause to be awake my best was gone to sleep and morn a new politeness took and failed to wake them up but called the others clear and passed their curtains by sweet morning when i oversleep knock recollect for me i looked at sunrise once and then i looked at them and wishfulness in me arose for circumstance the same t was such an ample peace it could not hold a sigh t was sabbath with the bells divorced t was sunset all the day so choosing but a gown and taking but a prayer the only raiment i should need i struggled and was there,544
"  If anybody's friend be dead,","  If anybody's friend be dead,
  
  It 's sharpest of the theme
  
  The thinking how they walked alive,
  
  At such and such a time.
  

  Their costume, of a Sunday,
  
  Some manner of the hair, —
  
  A prank nobody knew but them,
  
  Lost, in the sepulchre.
  

  How warm they were on such a day:
  
  You almost feel the date,
  
  So short way off it seems; and now,
  
  They 're centuries from that.
  

  How pleased they were at what you said;
  
  You try to touch the smile,
  
  And dip your fingers in the frost:
  
  When was it, can you tell,
  

  You asked the company to tea,
  
  Acquaintance, just a few,
  
  And chatted close with this grand thing
  
  That don't remember you?
  

  Past bows and invitations,
  
  Past interview, and vow,
  
  Past what ourselves can estimate, —
  
  That makes the quick of woe!",842,,if anybodys friend be dead it s sharpest of the theme the thinking how they walked alive at such and such a time their costume of a sunday some manner of the hair a prank nobody knew but them lost in the sepulchre how warm they were on such a day you almost feel the date so short way off it seems and now they re centuries from that how pleased they were at what you said you try to touch the smile and dip your fingers in the frost when was it can you tell you asked the company to tea acquaintance just a few and chatted close with this grand thing that dont remember you past bows and invitations past interview and vow past what ourselves can estimate that makes the quick of woe,684
  Our journey had advanced;,"  Our journey had advanced;
  
  Our feet were almost come
  
  To that odd fork in Being's road,
  
  Eternity by term.
  

  Our pace took sudden awe,
  
  Our feet reluctant led.
  
  Before were cities, but between,
  
  The forest of the dead.
  

  Retreat was out of hope, —
  
  Behind, a sealed route,
  
  Eternity's white flag before,
  
  And God at every gate.",373,,our journey had advanced our feet were almost come to that odd fork in beings road eternity by term our pace took sudden awe our feet reluctant led before were cities but between the forest of the dead retreat was out of hope behind a sealed route eternitys white flag before and god at every gate,297
  Ample make this bed.,"  Ample make this bed.
  
  Make this bed with awe;
  
  In it wait till judgment break
  
  Excellent and fair.
  

  Be its mattress straight,
  
  Be its pillow round;
  
  Let no sunrise' yellow noise
  
  Interrupt this ground.",232,,ample make this bed make this bed with awe in it wait till judgment break excellent and fair be its mattress straight be its pillow round let no sunrise yellow noise interrupt this ground,187
"  On such a night, or such a night,","  On such a night, or such a night,
  
  Would anybody care
  
  If such a little figure
  
  Slipped quiet from its chair,
  

  So quiet, oh, how quiet!
  
  That nobody might know
  
  But that the little figure
  
  Rocked softer, to and fro?
  

  On such a dawn, or such a dawn,
  
  Would anybody sigh
  
  That such a little figure
  
  Too sound asleep did lie
  

  For chanticleer to wake it, —
  
  Or stirring house below,
  
  Or giddy bird in orchard,
  
  Or early task to do?
  

  There was a little figure plump
  
  For every little knoll,
  
  Busy needles, and spools of thread,
  
  And trudging feet from school.
  

  Playmates, and holidays, and nuts,
  
  And visions vast and small.
  
  Strange that the feet so precious charged
  
  Should reach so small a goal!",792,,on such a night or such a night would anybody care if such a little figure slipped quiet from its chair so quiet oh how quiet that nobody might know but that the little figure rocked softer to and fro on such a dawn or such a dawn would anybody sigh that such a little figure too sound asleep did lie for chanticleer to wake it or stirring house below or giddy bird in orchard or early task to do there was a little figure plump for every little knoll busy needles and spools of thread and trudging feet from school playmates and holidays and nuts and visions vast and small strange that the feet so precious charged should reach so small a goal,645
  Essential oils are wrung:,"  Essential oils are wrung:
  
  The attar from the rose
  
  Is not expressed by suns alone,
  
  It is the gift of screws.
  

  The general rose decays;
  
  But this, in lady's drawer,
  
  Makes summer when the lady lies
  
  In ceaseless rosemary.",253,,essential oils are wrung the attar from the rose is not expressed by suns alone it is the gift of screws the general rose decays but this in ladys drawer makes summer when the lady lies in ceaseless rosemary,207
  I lived on dread; to those who know,"  I lived on dread; to those who know
  
  The stimulus there is
  
  In danger, other impetus
  
  Is numb and vital-less.
  

  As 't were a spur upon the soul,
  
  A fear will urge it where
  
  To go without the spectre's aid
  
  Were challenging despair.",261,,i lived on dread to those who know the stimulus there is in danger other impetus is numb and vitalless as t were a spur upon the soul a fear will urge it where to go without the spectres aid were challenging despair,215
"  If I should die,","  If I should die,
  
  And you should live,
  
  And time should gurgle on,
  
  And morn should beam,
  
  And noon should burn,
  
  As it has usual done;
  
  If birds should build as early,
  
  And bees as bustling go, —
  
  One might depart at option
  
  From enterprise below!
  
  'T is sweet to know that stocks will stand
  
  When we with daisies lie,
  
  That commerce will continue,
  
  And trades as briskly fly.
  
  It makes the parting tranquil
  
  And keeps the soul serene,
  
  That gentlemen so sprightly
  
  Conduct the pleasing scene!",564,,if i should die and you should live and time should gurgle on and morn should beam and noon should burn as it has usual done if birds should build as early and bees as bustling go one might depart at option from enterprise below t is sweet to know that stocks will stand when we with daisies lie that commerce will continue and trades as briskly fly it makes the parting tranquil and keeps the soul serene that gentlemen so sprightly conduct the pleasing scene,460
"  Her final summer was it,","  Her final summer was it,
  
  And yet we guessed it not;
  
  If tenderer industriousness
  
  Pervaded her, we thought
  

  A further force of life
  
  Developed from within, —
  
  When Death lit all the shortness up,
  
  And made the hurry plain.
  

  We wondered at our blindness, —
  
  When nothing was to see
  
  But her Carrara guide-post, —
  
  At our stupidity,
  

  When, duller than our dullness,
  
  The busy darling lay,
  
  So busy was she, finishing,
  
  So leisurely were we!",504,,her final summer was it and yet we guessed it not if tenderer industriousness pervaded her we thought a further force of life developed from within when death lit all the shortness up and made the hurry plain we wondered at our blindness when nothing was to see but her carrara guidepost at our stupidity when duller than our dullness the busy darling lay so busy was she finishing so leisurely were we,402
"  One need not be a chamber to be haunted,","  One need not be a chamber to be haunted,
  
  One need not be a house;
  
  The brain has corridors surpassing
  
  Material place.
  

  Far safer, of a midnight meeting
  
  External ghost,
  
  Than an interior confronting
  
  That whiter host.
  

  Far safer through an Abbey gallop,
  
  The stones achase,
  
  Than, moonless, one's own self encounter
  
  In lonesome place.
  

  Ourself, behind ourself concealed,
  
  Should startle most;
  
  Assassin, hid in our apartment,
  
  Be horror's least.
  

  The prudent carries a revolver,
  
  He bolts the door,
  
  O'erlooking a superior spectre
  
  More near.",627,,one need not be a chamber to be haunted one need not be a house the brain has corridors surpassing material place far safer of a midnight meeting external ghost than an interior confronting that whiter host far safer through an abbey gallop the stones achase than moonless ones own self encounter in lonesome place ourself behind ourself concealed should startle most assassin hid in our apartment be horrors least the prudent carries a revolver he bolts the door oerlooking a superior spectre more near,503
"  She died, — this was the way she died;","  She died, — this was the way she died;
  
  And when her breath was done,
  
  Took up her simple wardrobe
  
  And started for the sun.
  

  Her little figure at the gate
  
  The angels must have spied,
  
  Since I could never find her
  
  Upon the mortal side.",268,,she died this was the way she died and when her breath was done took up her simple wardrobe and started for the sun her little figure at the gate the angels must have spied since i could never find her upon the mortal side,222
  Wait till the majesty of Death,"  Wait till the majesty of Death
  
  Invests so mean a brow!
  
  Almost a powdered footman
  
  Might dare to touch it now!
  

  Wait till in everlasting robes
  
  This democrat is dressed,
  
  Then prate about ""preferment""
  
  And ""station"" and the rest!
  

  Around this quiet courtier
  
  Obsequious angels wait!
  
  Full royal is his retinue,
  
  Full purple is his state!
  

  A lord might dare to lift the hat
  
  To such a modest clay,
  
  Since that my Lord, ""the Lord of lords""
  
  Receives unblushingly!",527,,wait till the majesty of death invests so mean a brow almost a powdered footman might dare to touch it now wait till in everlasting robes this democrat is dressed then prate about preferment and station and the rest around this quiet courtier obsequious angels wait full royal is his retinue full purple is his state a lord might dare to lift the hat to such a modest clay since that my lord the lord of lords receives unblushingly,431
  Went up a year this evening!,"  Went up a year this evening!
  
  I recollect it well!
  
  Amid no bells nor bravos
  
  The bystanders will tell!
  
  Cheerful, as to the village,
  
  Tranquil, as to repose,
  
  Chastened, as to the chapel,
  
  This humble tourist rose.
  
  Did not talk of returning,
  
  Alluded to no time
  
  When, were the gales propitious,
  
  We might look for him;
  
  Was grateful for the roses
  
  In life's diverse bouquet,
  
  Talked softly of new species
  
  To pick another day.
  

  Beguiling thus the wonder,
  
  The wondrous nearer drew;
  
  Hands bustled at the moorings —
  
  The crowd respectful grew.
  
  Ascended from our vision
  
  To countenances new!
  
  A difference, a daisy,
  
  Is all the rest I knew!",737,,went up a year this evening i recollect it well amid no bells nor bravos the bystanders will tell cheerful as to the village tranquil as to repose chastened as to the chapel this humble tourist rose did not talk of returning alluded to no time when were the gales propitious we might look for him was grateful for the roses in lifes diverse bouquet talked softly of new species to pick another day beguiling thus the wonder the wondrous nearer drew hands bustled at the moorings the crowd respectful grew ascended from our vision to countenances new a difference a daisy is all the rest i knew,593
"  Taken from men this morning,","  Taken from men this morning,
  
  Carried by men to-day,
  
  Met by the gods with banners
  
  Who marshalled her away.
  

  One little maid from playmates,
  
  One little mind from school, —
  
  There must be guests in Eden;
  
  All the rooms are full.
  

  Far as the east from even,
  
  Dim as the border star, —
  
  Courtiers quaint, in kingdoms,
  
  Our departed are.",383,,taken from men this morning carried by men today met by the gods with banners who marshalled her away one little maid from playmates one little mind from school there must be guests in eden all the rooms are full far as the east from even dim as the border star courtiers quaint in kingdoms our departed are,307
  What inn is this,"  What inn is this
  
  Where for the night
  
  Peculiar traveller comes?
  
  Who is the landlord?
  
  Where the maids?
  
  Behold, what curious rooms!
  
  No ruddy fires on the hearth,
  
  No brimming tankards flow.
  
  Necromancer, landlord,
  
  Who are these below?",276,,what inn is this where for the night peculiar traveller comes who is the landlord where the maids behold what curious rooms no ruddy fires on the hearth no brimming tankards flow necromancer landlord who are these below,219
"  It was not death, for I stood up,","  It was not death, for I stood up,
  
  And all the dead lie down;
  
  It was not night, for all the bells
  
  Put out their tongues, for noon.
  

  It was not frost, for on my flesh
  
  I felt siroccos crawl, —
  
  Nor fire, for just my marble feet
  
  Could keep a chancel cool.
  

  And yet it tasted like them all;
  
  The figures I have seen
  
  Set orderly, for burial,
  
  Reminded me of mine,
  

  As if my life were shaven
  
  And fitted to a frame,
  
  And could not breathe without a key;
  
  And 't was like midnight, some,
  

  When everything that ticked has stopped,
  
  And space stares, all around,
  
  Or grisly frosts, first autumn morns,
  
  Repeal the beating ground.
  

  But most like chaos, — stopless, cool, —
  
  Without a chance or spar,
  
  Or even a report of land
  
  To justify despair.",840,,it was not death for i stood up and all the dead lie down it was not night for all the bells put out their tongues for noon it was not frost for on my flesh i felt siroccos crawl nor fire for just my marble feet could keep a chancel cool and yet it tasted like them all the figures i have seen set orderly for burial reminded me of mine as if my life were shaven and fitted to a frame and could not breathe without a key and t was like midnight some when everything that ticked has stopped and space stares all around or grisly frosts first autumn morns repeal the beating ground but most like chaos stopless cool without a chance or spar or even a report of land to justify despair,682
"  I should not dare to leave my friend,","  I should not dare to leave my friend,
  
  Because — because if he should die
  
  While I was gone, and I — too late —
  
  Should reach the heart that wanted me;
  

  If I should disappoint the eyes
  
  That hunted, hunted so, to see,
  
  And could not bear to shut until
  
  They ""noticed"" me — they noticed me;
  

  If I should stab the patient faith
  
  So sure I 'd come — so sure I 'd come,
  
  It listening, listening, went to sleep
  
  Telling my tardy name, —
  

  My heart would wish it broke before,
  
  Since breaking then, since breaking then,
  
  Were useless as next morning's sun,
  
  Where midnight frosts had lain!",647,,i should not dare to leave my friend because because if he should die while i was gone and i too late should reach the heart that wanted me if i should disappoint the eyes that hunted hunted so to see and could not bear to shut until they noticed me they noticed me if i should stab the patient faith so sure i d come so sure i d come it listening listening went to sleep telling my tardy name my heart would wish it broke before since breaking then since breaking then were useless as next mornings sun where midnight frosts had lain,534
  Great streets of silence led away,"  Great streets of silence led away
  
  To neighborhoods of pause;
  
  Here was no notice, no dissent,
  
  No universe, no laws.
  

  By clocks 't was morning, and for night
  
  The bells at distance called;
  
  But epoch had no basis here,
  
  For period exhaled.",271,,great streets of silence led away to neighborhoods of pause here was no notice no dissent no universe no laws by clocks t was morning and for night the bells at distance called but epoch had no basis here for period exhaled,223
  A throe upon the features,"  A throe upon the features
  
  A hurry in the breath,
  
  An ecstasy of parting
  
  Denominated ""Death,"" —
  

  An anguish at the mention,
  
  Which, when to patience grown,
  
  I 've known permission given
  
  To rejoin its own.",237,,a throe upon the features a hurry in the breath an ecstasy of parting denominated death an anguish at the mention which when to patience grown i ve known permission given to rejoin its own,188
  Of tribulation these are they,"  Of tribulation these are they
  
  Denoted by the white;
  
  The spangled gowns, a lesser rank
  
  Of victors designate.
  

  All these did conquer; but the ones
  
  Who overcame most times
  
  Wear nothing commoner than snow,
  
  No ornament but palms.
  

  Surrender is a sort unknown
  
  On this superior soil;
  
  Defeat, an outgrown anguish,
  
  Remembered as the mile
  

  Our panting ankle barely gained
  
  When night devoured the road;
  
  But we stood whispering in the house,
  
  And all we said was ""Saved""!",535,,of tribulation these are they denoted by the white the spangled gowns a lesser rank of victors designate all these did conquer but the ones who overcame most times wear nothing commoner than snow no ornament but palms surrender is a sort unknown on this superior soil defeat an outgrown anguish remembered as the mile our panting ankle barely gained when night devoured the road but we stood whispering in the house and all we said was saved,441
  I think just how my shape will rise,"  I think just how my shape will rise
  
  When I shall be forgiven,
  
  Till hair and eyes and timid head
  
  Are out of sight, in heaven.
  

  I think just how my lips will weigh
  
  With shapeless, quivering prayer
  
  That you, so late, consider me,
  
  The sparrow of your care.
  

  I mind me that of anguish sent,
  
  Some drifts were moved away
  
  Before my simple bosom broke, —
  
  And why not this, if they?
  

  And so, until delirious borne
  
  I con that thing, — ""forgiven,"" —
  
  Till with long fright and longer trust
  
  I drop my heart, unshriven!",581,,i think just how my shape will rise when i shall be forgiven till hair and eyes and timid head are out of sight in heaven i think just how my lips will weigh with shapeless quivering prayer that you so late consider me the sparrow of your care i mind me that of anguish sent some drifts were moved away before my simple bosom broke and why not this if they and so until delirious borne i con that thing forgiven till with long fright and longer trust i drop my heart unshriven,476
  After a hundred years,"  After a hundred years
  
  Nobody knows the place, —
  
  Agony, that enacted there,
  
  Motionless as peace.
  

  Weeds triumphant ranged,
  
  Strangers strolled and spelled
  
  At the lone orthography
  
  Of the elder dead.
  

  Winds of summer fields
  
  Recollect the way, —
  
  Instinct picking up the key
  
  Dropped by memory.",344,,after a hundred years nobody knows the place agony that enacted there motionless as peace weeds triumphant ranged strangers strolled and spelled at the lone orthography of the elder dead winds of summer fields recollect the way instinct picking up the key dropped by memory,273
  Lay this laurel on the one,"  Lay this laurel on the one
  
  Too intrinsic for renown.
  
  Laurel! veil your deathless tree, —
  
  Him you chasten, that is he!",134,,lay this laurel on the one too intrinsic for renown laurel veil your deathless tree him you chasten that is he,110
  'T is little I could care for pearls,"  'T is little I could care for pearls
  
  Who own the ample sea;
  
  Or brooches, when the Emperor
  
  With rubies pelteth me;
  

  Or gold, who am the Prince of Mines;
  
  Or diamonds, when I see
  
  A diadem to fit a dome
  
  Continual crowning me.",258,,t is little i could care for pearls who own the ample sea or brooches when the emperor with rubies pelteth me or gold who am the prince of mines or diamonds when i see a diadem to fit a dome continual crowning me,212
  Superiority to fate,"  Superiority to fate
  
  Is difficult to learn.
  
  'T is not conferred by any,
  
  But possible to earn
  

  A pittance at a time,
  
  Until, to her surprise,
  
  The soul with strict economy
  
  Subsists till Paradise.",228,,superiority to fate is difficult to learn t is not conferred by any but possible to earn a pittance at a time until to her surprise the soul with strict economy subsists till paradise,183
  Hope is a subtle glutton;,"  Hope is a subtle glutton;
  
  He feeds upon the fair;
  
  And yet, inspected closely,
  
  What abstinence is there!
  

  His is the halcyon table
  
  That never seats but one,
  
  And whatsoever is consumed
  
  The same amounts remain.",244,,hope is a subtle glutton he feeds upon the fair and yet inspected closely what abstinence is there his is the halcyon table that never seats but one and whatsoever is consumed the same amounts remain,199
  Forbidden fruit a flavor has,"  Forbidden fruit a flavor has
  
  That lawful orchards mocks;
  
  How luscious lies the pea within
  
  The pod that Duty locks!",131,,forbidden fruit a flavor has that lawful orchards mocks how luscious lies the pea within the pod that duty locks,112
  Heaven is what I cannot reach!,"  Heaven is what I cannot reach!
  
  The apple on the tree,
  
  Provided it do hopeless hang,
  
  That 'heaven' is, to me.
  

  The color on the cruising cloud,
  
  The interdicted ground
  
  Behind the hill, the house behind, —
  
  There Paradise is found!",264,,heaven is what i cannot reach the apple on the tree provided it do hopeless hang that heaven is to me the color on the cruising cloud the interdicted ground behind the hill the house behind there paradise is found,213
  A word is dead,"  A word is dead
  
  When it is said,
  
  Some say.
  
  I say it just
  
  Begins to live
  
  That day.",107,,a word is dead when it is said some say i say it just begins to live that day,77
  To venerate the simple days,"  To venerate the simple days
  
  Which lead the seasons by,
  
  Needs but to remember
  
  That from you or me
  
  They may take the trifle
  
  Termed mortality!
  

  To invest existence with a stately air,
  
  Needs but to remember
  
  That the acorn there
  
  Is the egg of forests
  
  For the upper air!",316,,to venerate the simple days which lead the seasons by needs but to remember that from you or me they may take the trifle termed mortality to invest existence with a stately air needs but to remember that the acorn there is the egg of forests for the upper air,259
"  It's such a little thing to weep,","  It's such a little thing to weep,
  
  So short a thing to sigh;
  
  And yet by trades the size of these
  
  We men and women die!",134,,its such a little thing to weep so short a thing to sigh and yet by trades the size of these we men and women die,113
  Drowning is not so pitiful,"  Drowning is not so pitiful
  
  As the attempt to rise.
  
  Three times, 't is said, a sinking man
  
  Comes up to face the skies,
  
  And then declines forever
  
  To that abhorred abode
  
  Where hope and he part company, —
  
  For he is grasped of God.
  
  The Maker's cordial visage,
  
  However good to see,
  
  Is shunned, we must admit it,
  
  Like an adversity.",381,,drowning is not so pitiful as the attempt to rise three times t is said a sinking man comes up to face the skies and then declines forever to that abhorred abode where hope and he part company for he is grasped of god the makers cordial visage however good to see is shunned we must admit it like an adversity,309
"  How still the bells in steeples stand,","  How still the bells in steeples stand,
  
  Till, swollen with the sky,
  
  They leap upon their silver feet
  
  In frantic melody!",135,,how still the bells in steeples stand till swollen with the sky they leap upon their silver feet in frantic melody,114
"  If the foolish call them 'flowers,'","  If the foolish call them 'flowers,'
  
  Need the wiser tell?
  
  If the savans 'classify' them,
  
  It is just as well!
  

  Those who read the Revelations
  
  Must not criticise
  
  Those who read the same edition
  
  With beclouded eyes!
  

  Could we stand with that old Moses
  
  Canaan denied, —
  
  Scan, like him, the stately landscape
  
  On the other side, —
  

  Doubtless we should deem superfluous
  
  Many sciences
  
  Not pursued by learnèd angels
  
  In scholastic skies!
  

  Low amid that glad
  
   Belles lettres
  

  Grant that we may stand,
  
  Stars, amid profound Galaxies,
  
  At that grand 'Right hand'!",649,,if the foolish call them flowers need the wiser tell if the savans classify them it is just as well those who read the revelations must not criticise those who read the same edition with beclouded eyes could we stand with that old moses canaan denied scan like him the stately landscape on the other side doubtless we should deem superfluous many sciences not pursued by learnèd angels in scholastic skies low amid that glad belles lettres grant that we may stand stars amid profound galaxies at that grand right hand,517
  Could mortal lip divine,"  Could mortal lip divine
  
  The undeveloped freight
  
  Of a delivered syllable,
  
  'T would crumble with the weight.",123,,could mortal lip divine the undeveloped freight of a delivered syllable t would crumble with the weight,103
  My life closed twice before its close;,"  My life closed twice before its close;
  
  It yet remains to see
  
  If Immortality unveil
  
  A third event to me,
  

  So huge, so hopeless to conceive,
  
  As these that twice befell.
  
  Parting is all we know of heaven,
  
  And all we need of hell.",262,,my life closed twice before its close it yet remains to see if immortality unveil a third event to me so huge so hopeless to conceive as these that twice befell parting is all we know of heaven and all we need of hell,217
  We never know how high we are,"  We never know how high we are
  
  Till we are called to rise;
  
  And then, if we are true to plan,
  
  Our statures touch the skies.
  

  The heroism we recite
  
  Would be a daily thing,
  
  Did not ourselves the cubits warp
  
  For fear to be a king.",262,,we never know how high we are till we are called to rise and then if we are true to plan our statures touch the skies the heroism we recite would be a daily thing did not ourselves the cubits warp for fear to be a king,218
"  While I was fearing it, it came,","  While I was fearing it, it came,
  
  But came with less of fear,
  
  Because that fearing it so long
  
  Had almost made it dear.
  
  There is a fitting a dismay,
  
  A fitting a despair.
  
  'Tis harder knowing it is due,
  
  Than knowing it is here.
  
  The trying on the utmost,
  
  The morning it is new,
  
  Is terribler than wearing it
  
  A whole existence through.",385,,while i was fearing it it came but came with less of fear because that fearing it so long had almost made it dear there is a fitting a dismay a fitting a despair tis harder knowing it is due than knowing it is here the trying on the utmost the morning it is new is terribler than wearing it a whole existence through,316
  There is no frigate like a book,"  There is no frigate like a book
  
  To take us lands away,
  
  Nor any coursers like a page
  
  Of prancing poetry.
  
  This traverse may the poorest take
  
  Without oppress of toll;
  
  How frugal is the chariot
  
  That bears a human soul!",251,,there is no frigate like a book to take us lands away nor any coursers like a page of prancing poetry this traverse may the poorest take without oppress of toll how frugal is the chariot that bears a human soul,210
  Who has not found the heaven below,"  Who has not found the heaven below
  
  Will fail of it above.
  
  God's residence is next to mine,
  
  His furniture is love.",130,,who has not found the heaven below will fail of it above gods residence is next to mine his furniture is love,109
"  A face devoid of love or grace,","  A face devoid of love or grace,
  
  A hateful, hard, successful face,
  
  A face with which a stone
  
  Would feel as thoroughly at ease
  
  As were they old acquaintances, —
  
  First time together thrown.",213,,a face devoid of love or grace a hateful hard successful face a face with which a stone would feel as thoroughly at ease as were they old acquaintances first time together thrown,178
  I had a guinea golden;,"  I had a guinea golden;
  
  I lost it in the sand,
  
  And though the sum was simple,
  
  And pounds were in the land,
  
  Still had it such a value
  
  Unto my frugal eye,
  
  That when I could not find it
  
  I sat me down to sigh.
  

  I had a crimson robin
  
  Who sang full many a day,
  
  But when the woods were painted
  
  He, too, did fly away.
  
  Time brought me other robins, —
  
  Their ballads were the same, —
  
  Still for my missing troubadour
  
  I kept the 'house at hame.'
  

  I had a star in heaven;
  
  One Pleiad was its name,
  
  And when I was not heeding
  
  It wandered from the same.
  
  And though the skies are crowded,
  
  And all the night ashine,
  
  I do not care about it,
  
  Since none of them are mine.
  

  My story has a moral:
  
  I have a missing friend, —
  
  Pleiad its name, and robin,
  
  And guinea in the sand, —
  
  And when this mournful ditty,
  
  Accompanied with tear,
  
  Shall meet the eye of traitor
  
  In country far from here,
  
  Grant that repentance solemn
  
  May seize upon his mind,
  
  And he no consolation
  
  Beneath the sun may find.",1140,"This poem may have had, like many others, a
  
  personal origin. It is more than probable that it was
  
  sent to some friend travelling in Europe, a dainty
  
  reminder of letter-writing delinquencies.",i had a guinea golden i lost it in the sand and though the sum was simple and pounds were in the land still had it such a value unto my frugal eye that when i could not find it i sat me down to sigh i had a crimson robin who sang full many a day but when the woods were painted he too did fly away time brought me other robins their ballads were the same still for my missing troubadour i kept the house at hame i had a star in heaven one pleiad was its name and when i was not heeding it wandered from the same and though the skies are crowded and all the night ashine i do not care about it since none of them are mine my story has a moral i have a missing friend pleiad its name and robin and guinea in the sand and when this mournful ditty accompanied with tear shall meet the eye of traitor in country far from here grant that repentance solemn may seize upon his mind and he no consolation beneath the sun may find,920
  From all the jails the boys and girls,"  From all the jails the boys and girls
  
  Ecstatically leap, —
  
  Beloved, only afternoon
  
  That prison doesn't keep.
  

  They storm the earth and stun the air,
  
  A mob of solid bliss.
  
  Alas! that frowns could lie in wait
  
  For such a foe as this!",267,,from all the jails the boys and girls ecstatically leap beloved only afternoon that prison doesnt keep they storm the earth and stun the air a mob of solid bliss alas that frowns could lie in wait for such a foe as this,219
"  Few get enough, — enough is one;","  Few get enough, — enough is one;
  
  To that ethereal throng
  
  Have not each one of us the right
  
  To stealthily belong?",129,,few get enough enough is one to that ethereal throng have not each one of us the right to stealthily belong,107
"  Upon the gallows hung a wretch,","  Upon the gallows hung a wretch,
  
  Too sullied for the hell
  
  To which the law entitled him.
  
  As nature's curtain fell
  
  The one who bore him tottered in,
  
  For this was woman's son.
  
  ''T was all I had,' she stricken gasped;
  
  Oh, what a livid boon!",273,,upon the gallows hung a wretch too sullied for the hell to which the law entitled him as natures curtain fell the one who bore him tottered in for this was womans son t was all i had she stricken gasped oh what a livid boon,223
  I felt a clearing in my mind,"  I felt a clearing in my mind
  
  As if my brain had split;
  
  I tried to match it, seam by seam,
  
  But could not make them fit.
  

  The thought behind I strove to join
  
  Unto the thought before,
  
  But sequence ravelled out of reach
  
  Like balls upon a floor.",277,,i felt a clearing in my mind as if my brain had split i tried to match it seam by seam but could not make them fit the thought behind i strove to join unto the thought before but sequence ravelled out of reach like balls upon a floor,233
  The reticent volcano keeps,"  The reticent volcano keeps
  
  His never slumbering plan;
  
  Confided are his projects pink
  
  To no precarious man.
  

  If nature will not tell the tale
  
  Jehovah told to her,
  
  Can human nature not survive
  
  Without a listener?
  

  Admonished by her buckled lips
  
  Let every babbler be.
  
  The only secret people keep
  
  Is Immortality.",365,,the reticent volcano keeps his never slumbering plan confided are his projects pink to no precarious man if nature will not tell the tale jehovah told to her can human nature not survive without a listener admonished by her buckled lips let every babbler be the only secret people keep is immortality,300
"  If recollecting were forgetting,","  If recollecting were forgetting,
  
  Then I remember not;
  
  And if forgetting, recollecting,
  
  How near I had forgot!
  
  And if to miss were merry,
  
  And if to mourn were gay,
  
  How very blithe the fingers
  
  That gathered these to-day!",255,,if recollecting were forgetting then i remember not and if forgetting recollecting how near i had forgot and if to miss were merry and if to mourn were gay how very blithe the fingers that gathered these today,209
  The farthest thunder that I heard,"  The farthest thunder that I heard
  
  Was nearer than the sky,
  
  And rumbles still, though torrid noons
  
  Have lain their missiles by.
  
  The lightning that preceded it
  
  Struck no one but myself,
  
  But I would not exchange the bolt
  
  For all the rest of life.
  
  Indebtedness to oxygen
  
  The chemist may repay,
  
  But not the obligation
  
  To electricity.
  
  It founds the homes and decks the days,
  
  And every clamor bright
  
  Is but the gleam concomitant
  
  Of that waylaying light.
  
  The thought is quiet as a flake, —
  
  A crash without a sound;
  
  How life's reverberation
  
  Its explanation found!",651,,the farthest thunder that i heard was nearer than the sky and rumbles still though torrid noons have lain their missiles by the lightning that preceded it struck no one but myself but i would not exchange the bolt for all the rest of life indebtedness to oxygen the chemist may repay but not the obligation to electricity it founds the homes and decks the days and every clamor bright is but the gleam concomitant of that waylaying light the thought is quiet as a flake a crash without a sound how lifes reverberation its explanation found,539
  On the bleakness of my lot,"  On the bleakness of my lot
  
  Bloom I strove to raise.
  
  Late, my acre of a rock
  
  Yielded grape and maize.
  

  Soil of flint if steadfast tilled
  
  Will reward the hand;
  
  Seed of palm by Lybian sun
  
  Fructified in sand.",241,,on the bleakness of my lot bloom i strove to raise late my acre of a rock yielded grape and maize soil of flint if steadfast tilled will reward the hand seed of palm by lybian sun fructified in sand,198
  A door just opened on a street —,"  A door just opened on a street —
  
  I, lost, was passing by —
  
  An instant's width of warmth disclosed,
  
  And wealth, and company.
  

  The door as sudden shut, and I,
  
  I, lost, was passing by, —
  
  Lost doubly, but by contrast most,
  
  Enlightening misery.",276,,a door just opened on a street i lost was passing by an instants width of warmth disclosed and wealth and company the door as sudden shut and i i lost was passing by lost doubly but by contrast most enlightening misery,218
  Are friends delight or pain?,"  Are friends delight or pain?
  
  Could bounty but remain
  
  Riches were good.
  

  But if they only stay
  
  Bolder to fly away,
  
  Riches are sad.",156,,are friends delight or pain could bounty but remain riches were good but if they only stay bolder to fly away riches are sad,124
  Ashes denote that fire was;,"  Ashes denote that fire was;
  
  Respect the grayest pile
  
  For the departed creature's sake
  
  That hovered there awhile.
  

  Fire exists the first in light,
  
  And then consolidates, —
  
  Only the chemist can disclose
  
  Into what carbonates.",259,,ashes denote that fire was respect the grayest pile for the departed creatures sake that hovered there awhile fire exists the first in light and then consolidates only the chemist can disclose into what carbonates,213
"  Fate slew him, but he did not drop;","  Fate slew him, but he did not drop;
  
  She felled — he did not fall —
  
  Impaled him on her fiercest stakes —
  
  He neutralized them all.
  

  She stung him, sapped his firm advance,
  
  But, when her worst was done,
  
  And he, unmoved, regarded her,
  
  Acknowledged him a man.",291,,fate slew him but he did not drop she felled he did not fall impaled him on her fiercest stakes he neutralized them all she stung him sapped his firm advance but when her worst was done and he unmoved regarded her acknowledged him a man,236
"  Finite to fail, but infinite to venture.","  Finite to fail, but infinite to venture.
  
  For the one ship that struts the shore
  
  Many's the gallant, overwhelmed creature
  
  Nodding in navies nevermore.",166,,finite to fail but infinite to venture for the one ship that struts the shore manys the gallant overwhelmed creature nodding in navies nevermore,144
  I measure every grief I meet,"  I measure every grief I meet
  
  With analytic eyes;
  
  I wonder if it weighs like mine,
  
  Or has an easier size.
  

  I wonder if they bore it long,
  
  Or did it just begin?
  
  I could not tell the date of mine,
  
  It feels so old a pain.
  

  I wonder if it hurts to live,
  
  And if they have to try,
  
  And whether, could they choose between,
  
  They would not rather die.
  

  I wonder if when years have piled —
  
  Some thousands — on the cause
  
  Of early hurt, if such a lapse
  
  Could give them any pause;
  

  Or would they go on aching still
  
  Through centuries above,
  
  Enlightened to a larger pain
  
  By contrast with the love.
  

  The grieved are many, I am told;
  
  The reason deeper lies, —
  
  Death is but one and comes but once,
  
  And only nails the eyes.
  

  There's grief of want, and grief of cold, —
  
  A sort they call 'despair;'
  
  There's banishment from native eyes,
  
  In sight of native air.
  

  And though I may not guess the kind
  
  Correctly, yet to me
  
  A piercing comfort it affords
  
  In passing Calvary,
  

  To note the fashions of the cross,
  
  Of those that stand alone,
  
  Still fascinated to presume
  
  That some are like my own.",1239,,i measure every grief i meet with analytic eyes i wonder if it weighs like mine or has an easier size i wonder if they bore it long or did it just begin i could not tell the date of mine it feels so old a pain i wonder if it hurts to live and if they have to try and whether could they choose between they would not rather die i wonder if when years have piled some thousands on the cause of early hurt if such a lapse could give them any pause or would they go on aching still through centuries above enlightened to a larger pain by contrast with the love the grieved are many i am told the reason deeper lies death is but one and comes but once and only nails the eyes theres grief of want and grief of cold a sort they call despair theres banishment from native eyes in sight of native air and though i may not guess the kind correctly yet to me a piercing comfort it affords in passing calvary to note the fashions of the cross of those that stand alone still fascinated to presume that some are like my own,1011
  I have a king who does not speak;,"  I have a king who does not speak;
  
  So, wondering, thro' the hours meek
  
  I trudge the day away,—
  
  Half glad when it is night and sleep,
  
  If, haply, thro' a dream to peep
  
  In parlors shut by day.
  

  And if I do, when morning comes,
  
  It is as if a hundred drums
  
  Did round my pillow roll,
  
  And shouts fill all my childish sky,
  
  And bells keep saying 'victory'
  
  From steeples in my soul!
  

  And if I don't, the little Bird
  
  Within the Orchard is not heard,
  
  And I omit to pray,
  
  'Father, thy will be done' to-day,
  
  For my will goes the other way,
  
  And it were perjury!",632,,i have a king who does not speak so wondering thro the hours meek i trudge the day away half glad when it is night and sleep if haply thro a dream to peep in parlors shut by day and if i do when morning comes it is as if a hundred drums did round my pillow roll and shouts fill all my childish sky and bells keep saying victory from steeples in my soul and if i dont the little bird within the orchard is not heard and i omit to pray father thy will be done today for my will goes the other way and it were perjury,514
  It dropped so low in my regard,"  It dropped so low in my regard
  
  I heard it hit the ground,
  
  And go to pieces on the stones
  
  At bottom of my mind;
  

  Yet blamed the fate that fractured, less
  
  Than I reviled myself
  
  For entertaining plated wares
  
  Upon my silver shelf.",263,,it dropped so low in my regard i heard it hit the ground and go to pieces on the stones at bottom of my mind yet blamed the fate that fractured less than i reviled myself for entertaining plated wares upon my silver shelf,221
  To lose one's faith surpasses,"  To lose one's faith surpasses
  
  The loss of an estate,
  
  Because estates can be
  
  Replenished, — faith cannot.
  

  Inherited with life,
  
  Belief but once can be;
  
  Annihilate a single clause,
  
  And Being's beggary.",236,,to lose ones faith surpasses the loss of an estate because estates can be replenished faith cannot inherited with life belief but once can be annihilate a single clause and beings beggary,187
  I had a daily bliss,"  I had a daily bliss
  
  I half indifferent viewed,
  
  Till sudden I perceived it stir, —
  
  It grew as I pursued,
  

  Till when, around a crag,
  
  It wasted from my sight,
  
  Enlarged beyond my utmost scope,
  
  I learned its sweetness right.",256,,i had a daily bliss i half indifferent viewed till sudden i perceived it stir it grew as i pursued till when around a crag it wasted from my sight enlarged beyond my utmost scope i learned its sweetness right,208
"  I worked for chaff, and earning wheat","  I worked for chaff, and earning wheat
  
  Was haughty and betrayed.
  
  What right had fields to arbitrate
  
  In matters ratified?
  

  I tasted wheat, — and hated chaff,
  
  And thanked the ample friend;
  
  Wisdom is more becoming viewed
  
  At distance than at hand.",279,,i worked for chaff and earning wheat was haughty and betrayed what right had fields to arbitrate in matters ratified i tasted wheat and hated chaff and thanked the ample friend wisdom is more becoming viewed at distance than at hand,232
"  Life, and Death, and Giants","  Life, and Death, and Giants
  
  Such as these, are still.
  
  Minor apparatus, hopper of the mill,
  
  Beetle at the candle,
  
  Or a fife's small fame,
  
  Maintain by accident
  
  That they proclaim.",209,,life and death and giants such as these are still minor apparatus hopper of the mill beetle at the candle or a fifes small fame maintain by accident that they proclaim,167
"  Our lives are Swiss, —","  Our lives are Swiss, —
  
  So still, so cool,
  
  Till, some odd afternoon,
  
  The Alps neglect their curtains,
  
  And we look farther on.
  

  Italy stands the other side,
  
  While, like a guard between,
  
  The solemn Alps,
  
  The siren Alps,
  
  Forever intervene!",282,,our lives are swiss so still so cool till some odd afternoon the alps neglect their curtains and we look farther on italy stands the other side while like a guard between the solemn alps the siren alps forever intervene,219
"  Remembrance has a rear and front, —","  Remembrance has a rear and front, —
  
  'T is something like a house;
  
  It has a garret also
  
  For refuse and the mouse,
  

  Besides, the deepest cellar
  
  That ever mason hewed;
  
  Look to it, by its fathoms
  
  Ourselves be not pursued.",254,,remembrance has a rear and front t is something like a house it has a garret also for refuse and the mouse besides the deepest cellar that ever mason hewed look to it by its fathoms ourselves be not pursued,206
"  To hang our head ostensibly,","  To hang our head ostensibly,
  
  And subsequent to find
  
  That such was not the posture
  
  Of our immortal mind,
  

  Affords the sly presumption
  
  That, in so dense a fuzz,
  
  You, too, take cobweb attitudes
  
  Upon a plane of gauze!",250,,to hang our head ostensibly and subsequent to find that such was not the posture of our immortal mind affords the sly presumption that in so dense a fuzz you too take cobweb attitudes upon a plane of gauze,205
"  The brain is wider than the sky,","  The brain is wider than the sky,
  
  For, put them side by side,
  
  The one the other will include
  
  With ease, and you beside.
  

  The brain is deeper than the sea,
  
  For, hold them, blue to blue,
  
  The one the other will absorb,
  
  As sponges, buckets do.
  

  The brain is just the weight of God,
  
  For, lift them, pound for pound,
  
  And they will differ, if they do,
  
  As syllable from sound.",424,,the brain is wider than the sky for put them side by side the one the other will include with ease and you beside the brain is deeper than the sea for hold them blue to blue the one the other will absorb as sponges buckets do the brain is just the weight of god for lift them pound for pound and they will differ if they do as syllable from sound,346
  The bone that has no marrow;,"  The bone that has no marrow;
  
  What ultimate for that?
  
  It is not fit for table,
  
  For beggar, or for cat.
  

  A bone has obligations,
  
  A being has the same;
  
  A marrowless assembly
  
  Is culpabler than shame.
  

  But how shall finished creatures
  
  A function fresh obtain? —
  
  Old Nicodemus' phantom
  
  Confronting us again!",358,,the bone that has no marrow what ultimate for that it is not fit for table for beggar or for cat a bone has obligations a being has the same a marrowless assembly is culpabler than shame but how shall finished creatures a function fresh obtain old nicodemus phantom confronting us again,286
"  The past is such a curious creature,","  The past is such a curious creature,
  
  To look her in the face
  
  A transport may reward us,
  
  Or a disgrace.
  

  Unarmed if any meet her,
  
  I charge him, fly!
  
  Her rusty ammunition
  
  Might yet reply!",222,,the past is such a curious creature to look her in the face a transport may reward us or a disgrace unarmed if any meet her i charge him fly her rusty ammunition might yet reply,177
  To help our bleaker parts,"  To help our bleaker parts
  
  Salubrious hours are given,
  
  Which if they do not fit for earth
  
  Drill silently for heaven.",132,,to help our bleaker parts salubrious hours are given which if they do not fit for earth drill silently for heaven,113
"  What soft, cherubic creatures","  What soft, cherubic creatures
  
  These gentlewomen are!
  
  One would as soon assault a plush
  
  Or violate a star.
  

  Such dimity convictions,
  
  A horror so refined
  
  Of freckled human nature,
  
  Of Deity ashamed, —
  

  It's such a common glory,
  
  A fisherman's degree!
  
  Redemption, brittle lady,
  
  Be so, ashamed of thee.",353,,what soft cherubic creatures these gentlewomen are one would as soon assault a plush or violate a star such dimity convictions a horror so refined of freckled human nature of deity ashamed its such a common glory a fishermans degree redemption brittle lady be so ashamed of thee,278
"  Who never wanted, — maddest joy","  Who never wanted, — maddest joy
  
  Remains to him unknown:
  
  The banquet of abstemiousness
  
  Surpasses that of wine.
  

  Within its hope, though yet ungrasped
  
  Desire's perfect goal,
  
  No nearer, lest reality
  
  Should disenthrall thy soul.",261,,who never wanted maddest joy remains to him unknown the banquet of abstemiousness surpasses that of wine within its hope though yet ungrasped desires perfect goal no nearer lest reality should disenthrall thy soul,213
  It might be easier,"  It might be easier
  
  To fail with land in sight,
  
  Than gain my blue peninsula
  
  To perish of delight.",113,,it might be easier to fail with land in sight than gain my blue peninsula to perish of delight,94
  You cannot put a fire out;,"  You cannot put a fire out;
  
  A thing that can ignite
  
  Can go, itself, without a fan
  
  Upon the slowest night.
  

  You cannot fold a flood
  
  And put it in a drawer, —
  
  Because the winds would find it out,
  
  And tell your cedar floor.",256,,you cannot put a fire out a thing that can ignite can go itself without a fan upon the slowest night you cannot fold a flood and put it in a drawer because the winds would find it out and tell your cedar floor,209
"  A modest lot, a fame petite,","  A modest lot, a fame petite,
  
  A brief campaign of sting and sweet
  
  Is plenty! Is enough!
  
  A sailor's business is the shore,
  
  A soldier's — balls. Who asketh more
  
  Must seek the neighboring life!",216,,a modest lot a fame petite a brief campaign of sting and sweet is plenty is enough a sailors business is the shore a soldiers balls who asketh more must seek the neighboring life,178
"  Is bliss, then, such abyss","  Is bliss, then, such abyss
  
  I must not put my foot amiss
  
  For fear I spoil my shoe?
  

  I'd rather suit my foot
  
  Than save my boot,
  
  For yet to buy another pair
  
  Is possible
  
  At any fair.
  

  But bliss is sold just once;
  
  The patent lost
  
  None buy it any more.",298,,is bliss then such abyss i must not put my foot amiss for fear i spoil my shoe id rather suit my foot than save my boot for yet to buy another pair is possible at any fair but bliss is sold just once the patent lost none buy it any more,236
  I stepped from plank to plank,"  I stepped from plank to plank
  
  So slow and cautiously;
  
  The stars about my head I felt,
  
  About my feet the sea.
  

  I knew not but the next
  
  Would be my final inch, —
  
  This gave me that precarious gait
  
  Some call experience.",252,,i stepped from plank to plank so slow and cautiously the stars about my head i felt about my feet the sea i knew not but the next would be my final inch this gave me that precarious gait some call experience,207
  One day is there of the series,"  One day is there of the series
  
  Termed Thanksgiving day,
  
  Celebrated part at table,
  
  Part in memory.
  

  Neither patriarch nor pussy,
  
  I dissect the play;
  
  Seems it, to my hooded thinking,
  
  Reflex holiday.
  

  Had there been no sharp subtraction
  
  From the early sum,
  
  Not an acre or a caption
  
  Where was once a room,
  

  Not a mention, whose small pebble
  
  Wrinkled any bay, —
  
  Unto such, were such assembly,
  
  'T were Thanksgiving day.",490,,one day is there of the series termed thanksgiving day celebrated part at table part in memory neither patriarch nor pussy i dissect the play seems it to my hooded thinking reflex holiday had there been no sharp subtraction from the early sum not an acre or a caption where was once a room not a mention whose small pebble wrinkled any bay unto such were such assembly t were thanksgiving day,392
"  Softened by Time's consummate plush,","  Softened by Time's consummate plush,
  
  How sleek the woe appears
  
  That threatened childhood's citadel
  
  And undermined the years!
  

  Bisected now by bleaker griefs,
  
  We envy the despair
  
  That devastated childhood's realm,
  
  So easy to repair.",268,,softened by times consummate plush how sleek the woe appears that threatened childhoods citadel and undermined the years bisected now by bleaker griefs we envy the despair that devastated childhoods realm so easy to repair,222
"  Proud of my broken heart since thou didst break it,","  Proud of my broken heart since thou didst break it,
  
  Proud of the pain I did not feel till thee,
  
  Proud of my night since thou with moons dost slake it,
  
  Not to partake thy passion, my humility.",208,,proud of my broken heart since thou didst break it proud of the pain i did not feel till thee proud of my night since thou with moons dost slake it not to partake thy passion my humility,186
"  My worthiness is all my doubt,","  My worthiness is all my doubt,
  
  His merit all my fear,
  
  Contrasting which, my qualities
  
  Do lowlier appear;
  

  Lest I should insufficient prove
  
  For his beloved need,
  
  The chiefest apprehension
  
  Within my loving creed.
  

  So I, the undivine abode
  
  Of his elect content,
  
  Conform my soul as 't were a church
  
  Unto her sacrament.",371,,my worthiness is all my doubt his merit all my fear contrasting which my qualities do lowlier appear lest i should insufficient prove for his beloved need the chiefest apprehension within my loving creed so i the undivine abode of his elect content conform my soul as t were a church unto her sacrament,302
"  Love is anterior to life,","  Love is anterior to life,
  
  Posterior to death,
  
  Initial of creation, and
  
  The exponent of breath.",111,,love is anterior to life posterior to death initial of creation and the exponent of breath,90
"  One blessing had I, than the rest","  One blessing had I, than the rest
  
  So larger to my eyes
  
  That I stopped gauging, satisfied,
  
  For this enchanted size.
  

  It was the limit of my dream,
  
  The focus of my prayer, —
  
  A perfect, paralyzing bliss
  
  Contented as despair.
  

  I knew no more of want or cold,
  
  Phantasms both become,
  
  For this new value in the soul,
  
  Supremest earthly sum.
  

  The heaven below the heaven above
  
  Obscured with ruddier hue.
  
  Life's latitude leant over-full;
  
  The judgment perished, too.
  

  Why joys so scantily disburse,
  
  Why Paradise defer,
  
  Why floods are served to us in bowls, —
  
  I speculate no more.",665,,one blessing had i than the rest so larger to my eyes that i stopped gauging satisfied for this enchanted size it was the limit of my dream the focus of my prayer a perfect paralyzing bliss contented as despair i knew no more of want or cold phantasms both become for this new value in the soul supremest earthly sum the heaven below the heaven above obscured with ruddier hue lifes latitude leant overfull the judgment perished too why joys so scantily disburse why paradise defer why floods are served to us in bowls i speculate no more,538
"  When roses cease to bloom, dear,","  When roses cease to bloom, dear,
  
  And violets are done,
  
  When bumble-bees in solemn flight
  
  Have passed beyond the sun,
  

  The hand that paused to gather
  
  Upon this summer's day
  
  Will idle lie, in Auburn, —
  
  Then take my flower, pray!",263,,when roses cease to bloom dear and violets are done when bumblebees in solemn flight have passed beyond the sun the hand that paused to gather upon this summers day will idle lie in auburn then take my flower pray,213
  Summer for thee grant I may be,"  Summer for thee grant I may be
  
  When summer days are flown!
  
  Thy music still when whippoorwill
  
  And oriole are done!
  

  For thee to bloom, I'll skip the tomb
  
  And sow my blossoms o'er!
  
  Pray gather me, Anemone,
  
  Thy flower forevermore!",264,,summer for thee grant i may be when summer days are flown thy music still when whippoorwill and oriole are done for thee to bloom ill skip the tomb and sow my blossoms oer pray gather me anemone thy flower forevermore,217
"  Split the lark and you'll find the music,","  Split the lark and you'll find the music,
  
  Bulb after bulb, in silver rolled,
  
  Scantily dealt to the summer morning,
  
  Saved for your ear when lutes be old.
  

  Loose the flood, you shall find it patent,
  
  Gush after gush, reserved for you;
  
  Scarlet experiment! sceptic Thomas,
  
  Now, do you doubt that your bird was true?",347,,split the lark and youll find the music bulb after bulb in silver rolled scantily dealt to the summer morning saved for your ear when lutes be old loose the flood you shall find it patent gush after gush reserved for you scarlet experiment sceptic thomas now do you doubt that your bird was true,295
"  To lose thee, sweeter than to gain","  To lose thee, sweeter than to gain
  
  All other hearts I knew.
  
  'T is true the drought is destitute,
  
  But then I had the dew!
  

  The Caspian has its realms of sand,
  
  Its other realm of sea;
  
  Without the sterile perquisite
  
  No Caspian could be.",270,,to lose thee sweeter than to gain all other hearts i knew t is true the drought is destitute but then i had the dew the caspian has its realms of sand its other realm of sea without the sterile perquisite no caspian could be,224
  Poor little heart!,"  Poor little heart!
  
  Did they forget thee?
  
  Then dinna care! Then dinna care!
  

  Proud little heart!
  
  Did they forsake thee?
  
  Be debonair! Be debonair!
  

  Frail little heart!
  
  I would not break thee:
  
  Could'st credit me? Could'st credit me?
  

  Gay little heart!
  
  Like morning glory
  
  Thou'll wilted be; thou'll wilted be!",362,,poor little heart did they forget thee then dinna care then dinna care proud little heart did they forsake thee be debonair be debonair frail little heart i would not break thee couldst credit me couldst credit me gay little heart like morning glory thoull wilted be thoull wilted be,283
  There is a word,"  There is a word
  
  Which bears a sword
  
  Can pierce an armed man.
  
  It hurls its barbed syllables,—
  
  At once is mute again.
  
  But where it fell
  
  The saved will tell
  
  On patriotic day,
  
  Some epauletted brother
  
  Gave his breath away.
  

  Wherever runs the breathless sun,
  
  Wherever roams the day,
  
  There is its noiseless onset,
  
  There is its victory!
  

  Behold the keenest marksman!
  
  The most accomplished shot!
  
  Time's sublimest target
  
  Is a soul 'forgot'!",517,,there is a word which bears a sword can pierce an armed man it hurls its barbed syllables at once is mute again but where it fell the saved will tell on patriotic day some epauletted brother gave his breath away wherever runs the breathless sun wherever roams the day there is its noiseless onset there is its victory behold the keenest marksman the most accomplished shot times sublimest target is a soul forgot,412
  I've got an arrow here;,"  I've got an arrow here;
  
  Loving the hand that sent it,
  
  I the dart revere.
  

  Fell, they will say, in 'skirmish'!
  
  Vanquished, my soul will know,
  
  By but a simple arrow
  
  Sped by an archer's bow.",219,,ive got an arrow here loving the hand that sent it i the dart revere fell they will say in skirmish vanquished my soul will know by but a simple arrow sped by an archers bow,173
  He fumbles at your spirit,"  He fumbles at your spirit
  
  As players at the keys
  
  Before they drop full music on;
  
  He stuns you by degrees,
  

  Prepares your brittle substance
  
  For the ethereal blow,
  
  By fainter hammers, further heard,
  
  Then nearer, then so slow
  

  Your breath has time to straighten,
  
  Your brain to bubble cool, —
  
  Deals one imperial thunderbolt
  
  That scalps your naked soul.",405,,he fumbles at your spirit as players at the keys before they drop full music on he stuns you by degrees prepares your brittle substance for the ethereal blow by fainter hammers further heard then nearer then so slow your breath has time to straighten your brain to bubble cool deals one imperial thunderbolt that scalps your naked soul,335
"  Heart, we will forget him!","  Heart, we will forget him!
  
  You and I, to-night!
  
  You may forget the warmth he gave,
  
  I will forget the light.
  

  When you have done, pray tell me,
  
  That I my thoughts may dim;
  
  Haste! lest while you're lagging,
  
  I may remember him!",261,,heart we will forget him you and i tonight you may forget the warmth he gave i will forget the light when you have done pray tell me that i my thoughts may dim haste lest while youre lagging i may remember him,209
"  Father, I bring thee not myself, —","  Father, I bring thee not myself, —
  
  That were the little load;
  
  I bring thee the imperial heart
  
  I had not strength to hold.
  

  The heart I cherished in my own
  
  Till mine too heavy grew,
  
  Yet strangest, heavier since it went,
  
  Is it too large for you?",280,,father i bring thee not myself that were the little load i bring thee the imperial heart i had not strength to hold the heart i cherished in my own till mine too heavy grew yet strangest heavier since it went is it too large for you,232
  We outgrow love like other things,"  We outgrow love like other things
  
  And put it in the drawer,
  
  Till it an antique fashion shows
  
  Like costumes grandsires wore.",140,,we outgrow love like other things and put it in the drawer till it an antique fashion shows like costumes grandsires wore,121
"  Not with a club the heart is broken,","  Not with a club the heart is broken,
  
  Nor with a stone;
  
  A whip, so small you could not see it.
  
  I've known
  

  To lash the magic creature
  
  Till it fell,
  
  Yet that whip's name too noble
  
  Then to tell.
  

  Magnanimous of bird
  
  By boy descried,
  
  To sing unto the stone
  
  Of which it died.",327,,not with a club the heart is broken nor with a stone a whip so small you could not see it ive known to lash the magic creature till it fell yet that whips name too noble then to tell magnanimous of bird by boy descried to sing unto the stone of which it died,258
"  My friend must be a bird,","  My friend must be a bird,
  
  Because it flies!
  
  Mortal my friend must be,
  
  Because it dies!
  
  Barbs has it, like a bee.
  
  Ah, curious friend,
  
  Thou puzzlest me!",182,,my friend must be a bird because it flies mortal my friend must be because it dies barbs has it like a bee ah curious friend thou puzzlest me,141
"  He touched me, so I live to know","  He touched me, so I live to know
  
  That such a day, permitted so,
  
  I groped upon his breast.
  
  It was a boundless place to me,
  
  And silenced, as the awful sea
  
  Puts minor streams to rest.
  

  And now, I'm different from before,
  
  As if I breathed superior air,
  
  Or brushed a royal gown;
  
  My feet, too, that had wandered so,
  
  My gypsy face transfigured now
  
  To tenderer renown.",417,,he touched me so i live to know that such a day permitted so i groped upon his breast it was a boundless place to me and silenced as the awful sea puts minor streams to rest and now im different from before as if i breathed superior air or brushed a royal gown my feet too that had wandered so my gypsy face transfigured now to tenderer renown,343
  Let me not mar that perfect dream,"  Let me not mar that perfect dream
  
  By an auroral stain,
  
  But so adjust my daily night
  
  That it will come again.",125,,let me not mar that perfect dream by an auroral stain but so adjust my daily night that it will come again,106
"  I live with him, I see his face;","  I live with him, I see his face;
  
  I go no more away
  
  For visitor, or sundown;
  
  Death's single privacy,
  

  The only one forestalling mine,
  
  And that by right that he
  
  Presents a claim invisible,
  
  No wedlock granted me.
  

  I live with him, I hear his voice,
  
  I stand alive to-day
  
  To witness to the certainty
  
  Of immortality
  

  Taught me by Time, — the lower way,
  
  Conviction every day, —
  
  That life like this is endless,
  
  Be judgment what it may.",504,,i live with him i see his face i go no more away for visitor or sundown deaths single privacy the only one forestalling mine and that by right that he presents a claim invisible no wedlock granted me i live with him i hear his voice i stand alive today to witness to the certainty of immortality taught me by time the lower way conviction every day that life like this is endless be judgment what it may,403
"  I envy seas whereon he rides,","  I envy seas whereon he rides,
  
  I envy spokes of wheels
  
  Of chariots that him convey,
  
  I envy speechless hills
  

  That gaze upon his journey;
  
  How easy all can see
  
  What is forbidden utterly
  
  As heaven, unto me!
  

  I envy nests of sparrows
  
  That dot his distant eaves,
  
  The wealthy fly upon his pane,
  
  The happy, happy leaves
  

  That just abroad his window
  
  Have summer's leave to be,
  
  The earrings of Pizarro
  
  Could not obtain for me.
  

  I envy light that wakes him,
  
  And bells that boldly ring
  
  To tell him it is noon abroad, —
  
  Myself his noon could bring,
  

  Yet interdict my blossom
  
  And abrogate my bee,
  
  Lest noon in everlasting night
  
  Drop Gabriel and me.",751,,i envy seas whereon he rides i envy spokes of wheels of chariots that him convey i envy speechless hills that gaze upon his journey how easy all can see what is forbidden utterly as heaven unto me i envy nests of sparrows that dot his distant eaves the wealthy fly upon his pane the happy happy leaves that just abroad his window have summers leave to be the earrings of pizarro could not obtain for me i envy light that wakes him and bells that boldly ring to tell him it is noon abroad myself his noon could bring yet interdict my blossom and abrogate my bee lest noon in everlasting night drop gabriel and me,611
"  A solemn thing it was, I said,","  A solemn thing it was, I said,
  
  A woman white to be,
  
  And wear, if God should count me fit,
  
  Her hallowed mystery.
  

  A timid thing to drop a life
  
  Into the purple well,
  
  Too plummetless that it come back
  
  Eternity until.",250,,a solemn thing it was i said a woman white to be and wear if god should count me fit her hallowed mystery a timid thing to drop a life into the purple well too plummetless that it come back eternity until,204
  The springtime's pallid landscape,"  The springtime's pallid landscape
  
  Will glow like bright bouquet,
  
  Though drifted deep in parian
  
  The village lies to-day.
  

  The lilacs, bending many a year,
  
  With purple load will hang;
  
  The bees will not forget the tune
  
  Their old forefathers sang.
  

  The rose will redden in the bog,
  
  The aster on the hill
  
  Her everlasting fashion set,
  
  And covenant gentians frill,
  

  Till summer folds her miracle
  
  As women do their gown,
  
  Or priests adjust the symbols
  
  When sacrament is done.",543,,the springtimes pallid landscape will glow like bright bouquet though drifted deep in parian the village lies today the lilacs bending many a year with purple load will hang the bees will not forget the tune their old forefathers sang the rose will redden in the bog the aster on the hill her everlasting fashion set and covenant gentians frill till summer folds her miracle as women do their gown or priests adjust the symbols when sacrament is done,450
  She slept beneath a tree,"  She slept beneath a tree
  
  Remembered but by me.
  
  I touched her cradle mute;
  
  She recognized the foot,
  
  Put on her carmine suit, —
  
  And see!",161,,she slept beneath a tree remembered but by me i touched her cradle mute she recognized the foot put on her carmine suit and see,127
  A light exists in spring,"  A light exists in spring
  
  Not present on the year
  
  At any other period.
  
  When March is scarcely here
  

  A color stands abroad
  
  On solitary hills
  
  That science cannot overtake,
  
  But human nature feels.
  

  It waits upon the lawn;
  
  It shows the furthest tree
  
  Upon the furthest slope we know;
  
  It almost speaks to me.
  

  Then, as horizons step,
  
  Or noons report away,
  
  Without the formula of sound,
  
  It passes, and we stay:
  

  A quality of loss
  
  Affecting our content,
  
  As trade had suddenly encroached
  
  Upon a sacrament.",592,,a light exists in spring not present on the year at any other period when march is scarcely here a color stands abroad on solitary hills that science cannot overtake but human nature feels it waits upon the lawn it shows the furthest tree upon the furthest slope we know it almost speaks to me then as horizons step or noons report away without the formula of sound it passes and we stay a quality of loss affecting our content as trade had suddenly encroached upon a sacrament,477
  A lady red upon the hill,"  A lady red upon the hill
  
  Her annual secret keeps;
  
  A lady white within the field
  
  In placid lily sleeps!
  

  The tidy breezes with their brooms
  
  Sweep vale, and hill, and tree!
  
  Prithee, my pretty housewives!
  
  Who may expected be?
  

  The neighbors do not yet suspect!
  
  The woods exchange a smile —
  
  Orchard, and buttercup, and bird —
  
  In such a little while!
  

  And yet how still the landscape stands,
  
  How nonchalant the wood,
  
  As if the resurrection
  
  Were nothing very odd!",534,,a lady red upon the hill her annual secret keeps a lady white within the field in placid lily sleeps the tidy breezes with their brooms sweep vale and hill and tree prithee my pretty housewives who may expected be the neighbors do not yet suspect the woods exchange a smile orchard and buttercup and bird in such a little while and yet how still the landscape stands how nonchalant the wood as if the resurrection were nothing very odd,435
"  Dear March, come in!","  Dear March, come in!
  
  How glad I am!
  
  I looked for you before.
  
  Put down your hat —
  
  You must have walked —
  
  How out of breath you are!
  
  Dear March, how are you?
  
  And the rest?
  
  Did you leave Nature well?
  
  Oh, March, come right upstairs with me,
  
  I have so much to tell!
  

  I got your letter, and the birds';
  
  The maples never knew
  
  That you were coming, — I declare,
  
  How red their faces grew!
  
  But, March, forgive me —
  
  And all those hills
  
  You left for me to hue;
  
  There was no purple suitable,
  
  You took it all with you.
  

  Who knocks? That April!
  
  Lock the door!
  
  I will not be pursued!
  
  He stayed away a year, to call
  
  When I am occupied.
  
  But trifles look so trivial
  
  As soon as you have come,
  
  That blame is just as dear as praise
  
  And praise as mere as blame.",880,,dear march come in how glad i am i looked for you before put down your hat you must have walked how out of breath you are dear march how are you and the rest did you leave nature well oh march come right upstairs with me i have so much to tell i got your letter and the birds the maples never knew that you were coming i declare how red their faces grew but march forgive me and all those hills you left for me to hue there was no purple suitable you took it all with you who knocks that april lock the door i will not be pursued he stayed away a year to call when i am occupied but trifles look so trivial as soon as you have come that blame is just as dear as praise and praise as mere as blame,696
"  We like March, his shoes are purple,","  We like March, his shoes are purple,
  
  He is new and high;
  
  Makes he mud for dog and peddler,
  
  Makes he forest dry;
  
  Knows the adder's tongue his coming,
  
  And begets her spot.
  
  Stands the sun so close and mighty
  
  That our minds are hot.
  
  News is he of all the others;
  
  Bold it were to die
  
  With the blue-birds buccaneering
  
  On his British sky.",388,,we like march his shoes are purple he is new and high makes he mud for dog and peddler makes he forest dry knows the adders tongue his coming and begets her spot stands the sun so close and mighty that our minds are hot news is he of all the others bold it were to die with the bluebirds buccaneering on his british sky,319
  Not knowing when the dawn will come,"  Not knowing when the dawn will come
  
  I open every door;
  
  Or has it feathers like a bird,
  
  Or billows like a shore?",128,,not knowing when the dawn will come i open every door or has it feathers like a bird or billows like a shore,108
"  A murmur in the trees to note,","  A murmur in the trees to note,
  
  Not loud enough for wind;
  
  A star not far enough to seek,
  
  Nor near enough to find;
  

  A long, long yellow on the lawn,
  
  A hubbub as of feet;
  
  Not audible, as ours to us,
  
  But dapperer, more sweet;
  

  A hurrying home of little men
  
  To houses unperceived, —
  
  All this, and more, if I should tell,
  
  Would never be believed.
  

  Of robins in the trundle bed
  
  How many I espy
  
  Whose nightgowns could not hide the wings,
  
  Although I heard them try!
  

  But then I promised ne'er to tell;
  
  How could I break my word?
  
  So go your way and I'll go mine, —
  
  No fear you'll miss the road.",681,,a murmur in the trees to note not loud enough for wind a star not far enough to seek nor near enough to find a long long yellow on the lawn a hubbub as of feet not audible as ours to us but dapperer more sweet a hurrying home of little men to houses unperceived all this and more if i should tell would never be believed of robins in the trundle bed how many i espy whose nightgowns could not hide the wings although i heard them try but then i promised neer to tell how could i break my word so go your way and ill go mine no fear youll miss the road,551
"  Morning is the place for dew,","  Morning is the place for dew,
  
  Corn is made at noon,
  
  After dinner light for flowers,
  
  Dukes for setting sun!",123,,morning is the place for dew corn is made at noon after dinner light for flowers dukes for setting sun,102
  To my quick ear the leaves conferred;,"  To my quick ear the leaves conferred;
  
  The bushes they were bells;
  
  I could not find a privacy
  
  From Nature's sentinels.
  

  In cave if I presumed to hide,
  
  The walls began to tell;
  
  Creation seemed a mighty crack
  
  To make me visible.",262,,to my quick ear the leaves conferred the bushes they were bells i could not find a privacy from natures sentinels in cave if i presumed to hide the walls began to tell creation seemed a mighty crack to make me visible,217
"  A sepal, petal, and a thorn","  A sepal, petal, and a thorn
  
  Upon a common summer's morn,
  
  A flash of dew, a bee or two,
  
  A breeze
  
  A caper in the trees, —
  
  And I'm a rose!",162,,a sepal petal and a thorn upon a common summers morn a flash of dew a bee or two a breeze a caper in the trees and im a rose,124
  High from the earth I heard a bird;,"  High from the earth I heard a bird;
  
  He trod upon the trees
  
  As he esteemed them trifles,
  
  And then he spied a breeze,
  
  And situated softly
  
  Upon a pile of wind
  
  Which in a perturbation
  
  Nature had left behind.
  
  A joyous-going fellow
  
  I gathered from his talk,
  
  Which both of benediction
  
  And badinage partook,
  
  Without apparent burden,
  
  I learned, in leafy wood
  
  He was the faithful father
  
  Of a dependent brood;
  
  And this untoward transport
  
  His remedy for care, —
  
  A contrast to our respites.
  
  How different we are!",596,,high from the earth i heard a bird he trod upon the trees as he esteemed them trifles and then he spied a breeze and situated softly upon a pile of wind which in a perturbation nature had left behind a joyousgoing fellow i gathered from his talk which both of benediction and badinage partook without apparent burden i learned in leafy wood he was the faithful father of a dependent brood and this untoward transport his remedy for care a contrast to our respites how different we are,484
  The spider as an artist,"  The spider as an artist
  
  Has never been employed
  
  Though his surpassing merit
  
  Is freely certified
  

  By every broom and Bridget
  
  Throughout a Christian land.
  
  Neglected son of genius,
  
  I take thee by the hand.",239,,the spider as an artist has never been employed though his surpassing merit is freely certified by every broom and bridget throughout a christian land neglected son of genius i take thee by the hand,198
  What mystery pervades a well!,"  What mystery pervades a well!
  
  The water lives so far,
  
  Like neighbor from another world
  
  Residing in a jar.
  

  The grass does not appear afraid;
  
  I often wonder he
  
  Can stand so close and look so bold
  
  At what is dread to me.
  

  Related somehow they may be, —
  
  The sedge stands next the sea,
  
  Where he is floorless, yet of fear
  
  No evidence gives he.
  

  But nature is a stranger yet;
  
  The ones that cite her most
  
  Have never passed her haunted house,
  
  Nor simplified her ghost.
  

  To pity those that know her not
  
  Is helped by the regret
  
  That those who know her, know her less
  
  The nearer her they get.",678,,what mystery pervades a well the water lives so far like neighbor from another world residing in a jar the grass does not appear afraid i often wonder he can stand so close and look so bold at what is dread to me related somehow they may be the sedge stands next the sea where he is floorless yet of fear no evidence gives he but nature is a stranger yet the ones that cite her most have never passed her haunted house nor simplified her ghost to pity those that know her not is helped by the regret that those who know her know her less the nearer her they get,561
"  To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee, —","  To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee, —
  
  One clover, and a bee,
  
  And revery.
  
  The revery alone will do
  
  If bees are few.",149,,to make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee one clover and a bee and revery the revery alone will do if bees are few,120
"  It's like the light, —","  It's like the light, —
  
  A fashionless delight
  
  It's like the bee, —
  
  A dateless melody.
  

  It's like the woods,
  
  Private like breeze,
  
  Phraseless, yet it stirs
  
  The proudest trees.
  

  It's like the morning, —
  
  Best when it's done, —
  
  The everlasting clocks
  
  Chime noon.",313,,its like the light a fashionless delight its like the bee a dateless melody its like the woods private like breeze phraseless yet it stirs the proudest trees its like the morning best when its done the everlasting clocks chime noon,231
  A dew sufficed itself,"  A dew sufficed itself
  
  And satisfied a leaf,
  
  And felt, 'how vast a destiny!
  
  How trivial is life!'
  

  The sun went out to work,
  
  The day went out to play,
  
  But not again that dew was seen
  
  By physiognomy.
  

  Whether by day abducted,
  
  Or emptied by the sun
  
  Into the sea, in passing,
  
  Eternally unknown.",347,,a dew sufficed itself and satisfied a leaf and felt how vast a destiny how trivial is life the sun went out to work the day went out to play but not again that dew was seen by physiognomy whether by day abducted or emptied by the sun into the sea in passing eternally unknown,275
"  His bill an auger is,","  His bill an auger is,
  
  His head, a cap and frill.
  
  He laboreth at every tree, —
  
  A worm his utmost goal.",118,,his bill an auger is his head a cap and frill he laboreth at every tree a worm his utmost goal,94
"  Sweet is the swamp with its secrets,","  Sweet is the swamp with its secrets,
  
  Until we meet a snake;
  
  'T is then we sigh for houses,
  
  And our departure take
  
  At that enthralling gallop
  
  That only childhood knows.
  
  A snake is summer's treason,
  
  And guile is where it goes.",261,,sweet is the swamp with its secrets until we meet a snake t is then we sigh for houses and our departure take at that enthralling gallop that only childhood knows a snake is summers treason and guile is where it goes,216
"  Could I but ride indefinite,","  Could I but ride indefinite,
  
  As doth the meadow-bee,
  
  And visit only where I liked,
  
  And no man visit me,
  

  And flirt all day with buttercups,
  
  And marry whom I may,
  
  And dwell a little everywhere,
  
  Or better, run away
  

  With no police to follow,
  
  Or chase me if I do,
  
  Till I should jump peninsulas
  
  To get away from you, —
  

  I said, but just to be a bee
  
  Upon a raft of air,
  
  And row in nowhere all day long,
  
  And anchor off the bar,—
  
  What liberty! So captives deem
  
  Who tight in dungeons are.",567,,could i but ride indefinite as doth the meadowbee and visit only where i liked and no man visit me and flirt all day with buttercups and marry whom i may and dwell a little everywhere or better run away with no police to follow or chase me if i do till i should jump peninsulas to get away from you i said but just to be a bee upon a raft of air and row in nowhere all day long and anchor off the bar what liberty so captives deem who tight in dungeons are,456
  The moon was but a chin of gold,"  The moon was but a chin of gold
  
  A night or two ago,
  
  And now she turns her perfect face
  
  Upon the world below.
  

  Her forehead is of amplest blond;
  
  Her cheek like beryl stone;
  
  Her eye unto the summer dew
  
  The likest I have known.
  

  Her lips of amber never part;
  
  But what must be the smile
  
  Upon her friend she could bestow
  
  Were such her silver will!
  

  And what a privilege to be
  
  But the remotest star!
  
  For certainly her way might pass
  
  Beside your twinkling door.
  

  Her bonnet is the firmament,
  
  The universe her shoe,
  
  The stars the trinkets at her belt,
  
  Her dimities of blue.",662,,the moon was but a chin of gold a night or two ago and now she turns her perfect face upon the world below her forehead is of amplest blond her cheek like beryl stone her eye unto the summer dew the likest i have known her lips of amber never part but what must be the smile upon her friend she could bestow were such her silver will and what a privilege to be but the remotest star for certainly her way might pass beside your twinkling door her bonnet is the firmament the universe her shoe the stars the trinkets at her belt her dimities of blue,548
  The bat is dun with wrinkled wings,"  The bat is dun with wrinkled wings
  
  Like fallow article,
  
  And not a song pervades his lips,
  
  Or none perceptible.
  

  His small umbrella, quaintly halved,
  
  Describing in the air
  
  An arc alike inscrutable, —
  
  Elate philosopher!
  

  Deputed from what firmament
  
  Of what astute abode,
  
  Empowered with what malevolence
  
  Auspiciously withheld.
  

  To his adroit Creator
  
  Ascribe no less the praise;
  
  Beneficent, believe me,
  
  His eccentricities.",495,,the bat is dun with wrinkled wings like fallow article and not a song pervades his lips or none perceptible his small umbrella quaintly halved describing in the air an arc alike inscrutable elate philosopher deputed from what firmament of what astute abode empowered with what malevolence auspiciously withheld to his adroit creator ascribe no less the praise beneficent believe me his eccentricities,400
"  You've seen balloons set, haven't you?","  You've seen balloons set, haven't you?
  
  So stately they ascend
  
  It is as swans discarded you
  
  For duties diamond.
  

  Their liquid feet go softly out
  
  Upon a sea of blond;
  
  They spurn the air as 't were too mean
  
  For creatures so renowned.
  

  Their ribbons just beyond the eye,
  
  They struggle some for breath,
  
  And yet the crowd applauds below;
  
  They would not encore death.
  

  The gilded creature strains and spins,
  
  Trips frantic in a tree,
  
  Tears open her imperial veins
  
  And tumbles in the sea.
  

  The crowd retire with an oath
  
  The dust in streets goes down,
  
  And clerks in counting-rooms observe,
  
  ''T was only a balloon.'",701,,youve seen balloons set havent you so stately they ascend it is as swans discarded you for duties diamond their liquid feet go softly out upon a sea of blond they spurn the air as t were too mean for creatures so renowned their ribbons just beyond the eye they struggle some for breath and yet the crowd applauds below they would not encore death the gilded creature strains and spins trips frantic in a tree tears open her imperial veins and tumbles in the sea the crowd retire with an oath the dust in streets goes down and clerks in countingrooms observe t was only a balloon,578
"  The cricket sang,","  The cricket sang,
  
  And set the sun,
  
  And workmen finished, one by one,
  
  Their seam the day upon.
  

  The low grass loaded with the dew,
  
  The twilight stood as strangers do
  
  With hat in hand, polite and new,
  
  To stay as if, or go.
  

  A vastness, as a neighbor, came, —
  
  A wisdom without face or name,
  
  A peace, as hemispheres at home, —
  
  And so the night became.",404,,the cricket sang and set the sun and workmen finished one by one their seam the day upon the low grass loaded with the dew the twilight stood as strangers do with hat in hand polite and new to stay as if or go a vastness as a neighbor came a wisdom without face or name a peace as hemispheres at home and so the night became,324
  Drab habitation of whom?,"  Drab habitation of whom?
  
  Tabernacle or tomb,
  
  Or dome of worm,
  
  Or porch of gnome,
  
  Or some elf's catacomb?",126,,drab habitation of whom tabernacle or tomb or dome of worm or porch of gnome or some elfs catacomb,98
  A sloop of amber slips away,"  A sloop of amber slips away
  
  Upon an ether sea,
  
  And wrecks in peace a purple tar,
  
  The son of ecstasy.",117,,a sloop of amber slips away upon an ether sea and wrecks in peace a purple tar the son of ecstasy,97
  Of bronze and blaze,"  Of bronze and blaze
  
  The north, to-night!
  
  So adequate its forms,
  
  So preconcerted with itself,
  
  So distant to alarms, —
  
  An unconcern so sovereign
  
  To universe, or me,
  
  It paints my simple spirit
  
  With tints of majesty,
  
  Till I take vaster attitudes,
  
  And strut upon my stem,
  
  Disdaining men and oxygen,
  
  For arrogance of them.
  

  My splendors are menagerie;
  
  But their competeless show
  
  Will entertain the centuries
  
  When I am, long ago,
  
  An island in dishonored grass,
  
  Whom none but daisies know.",573,,of bronze and blaze the north tonight so adequate its forms so preconcerted with itself so distant to alarms an unconcern so sovereign to universe or me it paints my simple spirit with tints of majesty till i take vaster attitudes and strut upon my stem disdaining men and oxygen for arrogance of them my splendors are menagerie but their competeless show will entertain the centuries when i am long ago an island in dishonored grass whom none but daisies know,460
"  How the old mountains drip with sunset,","  How the old mountains drip with sunset,
  
  And the brake of dun!
  
  How the hemlocks are tipped in tinsel
  
  By the wizard sun!
  

  How the old steeples hand the scarlet,
  
  Till the ball is full, —
  
  Have I the lip of the flamingo
  
  That I dare to tell?
  

  Then, how the fire ebbs like billows,
  
  Touching all the grass
  
  With a departing, sapphire feature,
  
  As if a duchess pass!
  

  How a small dusk crawls on the village
  
  Till the houses blot;
  
  And the odd flambeaux no men carry
  
  Glimmer on the spot!
  

  Now it is night in nest and kennel,
  
  And where was the wood,
  
  Just a dome of abyss is nodding
  
  Into solitude! —
  

  These are the visions baffled Guido;
  
  Titian never told;
  
  Domenichino dropped the pencil,
  
  Powerless to unfold.",810,,how the old mountains drip with sunset and the brake of dun how the hemlocks are tipped in tinsel by the wizard sun how the old steeples hand the scarlet till the ball is full have i the lip of the flamingo that i dare to tell then how the fire ebbs like billows touching all the grass with a departing sapphire feature as if a duchess pass how a small dusk crawls on the village till the houses blot and the odd flambeaux no men carry glimmer on the spot now it is night in nest and kennel and where was the wood just a dome of abyss is nodding into solitude these are the visions baffled guido titian never told domenichino dropped the pencil powerless to unfold,664
  The murmuring of bees has ceased;,"  The murmuring of bees has ceased;
  
  But murmuring of some
  
  Posterior, prophetic,
  
  Has simultaneous come, —
  

  The lower metres of the year,
  
  When nature's laugh is done, —
  
  The Revelations of the book
  
  Whose Genesis is June.",252,,the murmuring of bees has ceased but murmuring of some posterior prophetic has simultaneous come the lower metres of the year when natures laugh is done the revelations of the book whose genesis is june,202
  This world is not conclusion;,"  This world is not conclusion;
  
  A sequel stands beyond,
  
  Invisible, as music,
  
  But positive, as sound.
  
  It beckons and it baffles;
  
  Philosophies don't know,
  
  And through a riddle, at the last,
  
  Sagacity must go.
  
  To guess it puzzles scholars;
  
  To gain it, men have shown
  
  Contempt of generations,
  
  And crucifixion known.",365,,this world is not conclusion a sequel stands beyond invisible as music but positive as sound it beckons and it baffles philosophies dont know and through a riddle at the last sagacity must go to guess it puzzles scholars to gain it men have shown contempt of generations and crucifixion known,292
  We learn in the retreating,"  We learn in the retreating
  
  How vast an one
  
  Was recently among us.
  
  A perished sun
  

  Endears in the departure
  
  How doubly more
  
  Than all the golden presence
  
  It was before!",203,,we learn in the retreating how vast an one was recently among us a perished sun endears in the departure how doubly more than all the golden presence it was before,163
"  They say that 'time assuages,' —","  They say that 'time assuages,' —
  
  Time never did assuage;
  
  An actual suffering strengthens,
  
  As sinews do, with age.
  

  Time is a test of trouble,
  
  But not a remedy.
  
  If such it prove, it prove too
  
  There was no malady.",248,,they say that time assuages time never did assuage an actual suffering strengthens as sinews do with age time is a test of trouble but not a remedy if such it prove it prove too there was no malady,197
"  We cover thee, sweet face.","  We cover thee, sweet face.
  
  Not that we tire of thee,
  
  But that thyself fatigue of us;
  
  Remember, as thou flee,
  
  We follow thee until
  
  Thou notice us no more,
  
  And then, reluctant, turn away
  
  To con thee o'er and o'er,
  
  And blame the scanty love
  
  We were content to show,
  
  Augmented, sweet, a hundred fold
  
  If thou would'st take it now.",382,,we cover thee sweet face not that we tire of thee but that thyself fatigue of us remember as thou flee we follow thee until thou notice us no more and then reluctant turn away to con thee oer and oer and blame the scanty love we were content to show augmented sweet a hundred fold if thou wouldst take it now,308
"  That is solemn we have ended, —","  That is solemn we have ended, —
  
  Be it but a play,
  
  Or a glee among the garrets,
  
  Or a holiday,
  

  Or a leaving home; or later,
  
  Parting with a world
  
  We have understood, for better
  
  Still it be unfurled.",233,,that is solemn we have ended be it but a play or a glee among the garrets or a holiday or a leaving home or later parting with a world we have understood for better still it be unfurled,185
"  The stimulus, beyond the grave","  The stimulus, beyond the grave
  
  His countenance to see,
  
  Supports me like imperial drams
  
  Afforded royally.",121,,the stimulus beyond the grave his countenance to see supports me like imperial drams afforded royally,101
"  Given in marriage unto thee,","  Given in marriage unto thee,
  
  Oh, thou celestial host!
  
  Bride of the Father and the Son,
  
  Bride of the Holy Ghost!
  

  Other betrothal shall dissolve,
  
  Wedlock of will decay;
  
  Only the keeper of this seal
  
  Conquers mortality.",253,,given in marriage unto thee oh thou celestial host bride of the father and the son bride of the holy ghost other betrothal shall dissolve wedlock of will decay only the keeper of this seal conquers mortality,207
  That such have died enables us,"  That such have died enables us
  
  The tranquiller to die;
  
  That such have lived, certificate
  
  For immortality.",122,,that such have died enables us the tranquiller to die that such have lived certificate for immortality,102
"  They won't frown always, — some sweet day","  They won't frown always, — some sweet day
  
  When I forget to tease,
  
  They'll recollect how cold I looked,
  
  And how I just said 'please.'
  

  Then they will hasten to the door
  
  To call the little child,
  
  Who cannot thank them, for the ice
  
  That on her lisping piled.",292,,they wont frown always some sweet day when i forget to tease theyll recollect how cold i looked and how i just said please then they will hasten to the door to call the little child who cannot thank them for the ice that on her lisping piled,241
"  It is an honorable thought,","  It is an honorable thought,
  
  And makes one lift one's hat,
  
  As one encountered gentlefolk
  
  Upon a daily street,
  

  That we've immortal place,
  
  Though pyramids decay,
  
  And kingdoms, like the orchard,
  
  Flit russetly away.",248,,it is an honorable thought and makes one lift ones hat as one encountered gentlefolk upon a daily street that weve immortal place though pyramids decay and kingdoms like the orchard flit russetly away,200
  The distance that the dead have gone,"  The distance that the dead have gone
  
  Does not at first appear;
  
  Their coming back seems possible
  
  For many an ardent year.
  

  And then, that we have followed them
  
  We more than half suspect,
  
  So intimate have we become
  
  With their dear retrospect.",277,,the distance that the dead have gone does not at first appear their coming back seems possible for many an ardent year and then that we have followed them we more than half suspect so intimate have we become with their dear retrospect,234
"  How dare the robins sing,","  How dare the robins sing,
  
  When men and women hear
  
  Who since they went to their account
  
  Have settled with the year! —
  
  Paid all that life had earned
  
  In one consummate bill,
  
  And now, what life or death can do
  
  Is immaterial.
  
  Insulting is the sun
  
  To him whose mortal light,
  
  Beguiled of immortality,
  
  Bequeaths him to the night.
  
  In deference to him
  
  Extinct be every hum,
  
  Whose garden wrestles with the dew,
  
  At daybreak overcome!",498,,how dare the robins sing when men and women hear who since they went to their account have settled with the year paid all that life had earned in one consummate bill and now what life or death can do is immaterial insulting is the sun to him whose mortal light beguiled of immortality bequeaths him to the night in deference to him extinct be every hum whose garden wrestles with the dew at daybreak overcome,408
  Death is like the insect,"  Death is like the insect
  
  Menacing the tree,
  
  Competent to kill it,
  
  But decoyed may be.
  

  Bait it with the balsam,
  
  Seek it with the knife,
  
  Baffle, if it cost you
  
  Everything in life.
  

  Then, if it have burrowed
  
  Out of reach of skill,
  
  Ring the tree and leave it, —
  
  'T is the vermin's will.",340,,death is like the insect menacing the tree competent to kill it but decoyed may be bait it with the balsam seek it with the knife baffle if it cost you everything in life then if it have burrowed out of reach of skill ring the tree and leave it t is the vermins will,266
"  'T is sunrise, little maid, hast thou","  'T is sunrise, little maid, hast thou
  
  No station in the day?
  
  'T was not thy wont to hinder so, —
  
  Retrieve thine industry.
  

  'T is noon, my little maid, alas!
  
  And art thou sleeping yet?
  
  The lily waiting to be wed,
  
  The bee, dost thou forget?
  

  My little maid, 't is night; alas,
  
  That night should be to thee
  
  Instead of morning! Hadst thou broached
  
  Thy little plan to me,
  
  Dissuade thee if I could not, sweet,
  
  I might have aided thee.",495,,t is sunrise little maid hast thou no station in the day t was not thy wont to hinder so retrieve thine industry t is noon my little maid alas and art thou sleeping yet the lily waiting to be wed the bee dost thou forget my little maid t is night alas that night should be to thee instead of morning hadst thou broached thy little plan to me dissuade thee if i could not sweet i might have aided thee,400
  Each that we lose takes part of us;,"  Each that we lose takes part of us;
  
  A crescent still abides,
  
  Which like the moon, some turbid night,
  
  Is summoned by the tides.",143,,each that we lose takes part of us a crescent still abides which like the moon some turbid night is summoned by the tides,121
  Not any higher stands the grave,"  Not any higher stands the grave
  
  For heroes than for men;
  
  Not any nearer for the child
  
  Than numb three-score and ten.
  

  This latest leisure equal lulls
  
  The beggar and his queen;
  
  Propitiate this democrat
  
  By summer's gracious mien.",264,,not any higher stands the grave for heroes than for men not any nearer for the child than numb threescore and ten this latest leisure equal lulls the beggar and his queen propitiate this democrat by summers gracious mien,220
"  As far from pity as complaint,","  As far from pity as complaint,
  
  As cool to speech as stone,
  
  As numb to revelation
  
  As if my trade were bone.
  

  As far from time as history,
  
  As near yourself to-day
  
  As children to the rainbow's scarf,
  
  Or sunset's yellow play
  

  To eyelids in the sepulchre.
  
  How still the dancer lies,
  
  While color's revelations break,
  
  And blaze the butterflies!",394,,as far from pity as complaint as cool to speech as stone as numb to revelation as if my trade were bone as far from time as history as near yourself today as children to the rainbows scarf or sunsets yellow play to eyelids in the sepulchre how still the dancer lies while colors revelations break and blaze the butterflies,322
"  'T is whiter than an Indian pipe,","  'T is whiter than an Indian pipe,
  
  'T is dimmer than a lace;
  
  No stature has it, like a fog,
  
  When you approach the place.
  

  Not any voice denotes it here,
  
  Or intimates it there;
  
  A spirit, how doth it accost?
  
  What customs hath the air?
  

  This limitless hyperbole
  
  Each one of us shall be;
  
  'T is drama, if (hypothesis)
  
  It be not tragedy!",387,,t is whiter than an indian pipe t is dimmer than a lace no stature has it like a fog when you approach the place not any voice denotes it here or intimates it there a spirit how doth it accost what customs hath the air this limitless hyperbole each one of us shall be t is drama if hypothesis it be not tragedy,310
"  She laid her docile crescent down,","  She laid her docile crescent down,
  
  And this mechanic stone
  
  Still states, to dates that have forgot,
  
  The news that she is gone.
  

  So constant to its stolid trust,
  
  The shaft that never knew,
  
  It shames the constancy that fled
  
  Before its emblem flew.",282,,she laid her docile crescent down and this mechanic stone still states to dates that have forgot the news that she is gone so constant to its stolid trust the shaft that never knew it shames the constancy that fled before its emblem flew,237
"  Bless God, he went as soldiers,","  Bless God, he went as soldiers,
  
  His musket on his breast;
  
  Grant, God, he charge the bravest
  
  Of all the martial blest.
  

  Please God, might I behold him
  
  In epauletted white,
  
  I should not fear the foe then,
  
  I should not fear the fight.",268,,bless god he went as soldiers his musket on his breast grant god he charge the bravest of all the martial blest please god might i behold him in epauletted white i should not fear the foe then i should not fear the fight,220
  Immortal is an ample word,"  Immortal is an ample word
  
  When what we need is by,
  
  But when it leaves us for a time,
  
  'T is a necessity.
  

  Of heaven above the firmest proof
  
  We fundamental know,
  
  Except for its marauding hand,
  
  It had been heaven below.",253,,immortal is an ample word when what we need is by but when it leaves us for a time t is a necessity of heaven above the firmest proof we fundamental know except for its marauding hand it had been heaven below,208
"  Where every bird is bold to go,","  Where every bird is bold to go,
  
  And bees abashless play,
  
  The foreigner before he knocks
  
  Must thrust the tears away.",132,,where every bird is bold to go and bees abashless play the foreigner before he knocks must thrust the tears away,112
"  The grave my little cottage is,","  The grave my little cottage is,
  
  Where, keeping house for thee,
  
  I make my parlor orderly,
  
  And lay the marble tea,
  

  For two divided, briefly,
  
  A cycle, it may be,
  
  Till everlasting life unite
  
  In strong society.",243,,the grave my little cottage is where keeping house for thee i make my parlor orderly and lay the marble tea for two divided briefly a cycle it may be till everlasting life unite in strong society,195
"  This was in the white of the year,","  This was in the white of the year,
  
  That was in the green,
  
  Drifts were as difficult then to think
  
  As daisies now to be seen.
  

  Looking back is best that is left,
  
  Or if it be before,
  
  Retrospection is prospect's half,
  
  Sometimes almost more.",273,,this was in the white of the year that was in the green drifts were as difficult then to think as daisies now to be seen looking back is best that is left or if it be before retrospection is prospects half sometimes almost more,227
  Sweet hours have perished here;,"  Sweet hours have perished here;
  
  This is a mighty room;
  
  Within its precincts hopes have played, —
  
  Now shadows in the tomb.",138,,sweet hours have perished here this is a mighty room within its precincts hopes have played now shadows in the tomb,115
  Me! Come! My dazzled face,"  Me! Come! My dazzled face
  
  In such a shining place!
  

  Me! Hear! My foreign ear
  
  The sounds of welcome near!
  

  The saints shall meet
  
  Our bashful feet.
  

  My holiday shall be
  
  That they remember me;
  

  My paradise, the fame
  
  That they pronounce my name.",288,,me come my dazzled face in such a shining place me hear my foreign ear the sounds of welcome near the saints shall meet our bashful feet my holiday shall be that they remember me my paradise the fame that they pronounce my name,227
"  From us she wandered now a year,","  From us she wandered now a year,
  
  Her tarrying unknown;
  
  If wilderness prevent her feet,
  
  Or that ethereal zone
  

  No eye hath seen and lived,
  
  We ignorant must be.
  
  We only know what time of year
  
  We took the mystery.",247,,from us she wandered now a year her tarrying unknown if wilderness prevent her feet or that ethereal zone no eye hath seen and lived we ignorant must be we only know what time of year we took the mystery,203
"  I wish I knew that woman's name,","  I wish I knew that woman's name,
  
  So, when she comes this way,
  
  To hold my life, and hold my ears,
  
  For fear I hear her say
  

  She's 'sorry I am dead,' again,
  
  Just when the grave and I
  
  Have sobbed ourselves almost to sleep, —
  
  Our only lullaby.",275,,i wish i knew that womans name so when she comes this way to hold my life and hold my ears for fear i hear her say shes sorry i am dead again just when the grave and i have sobbed ourselves almost to sleep our only lullaby,222
"  Bereaved of all, I went abroad,","  Bereaved of all, I went abroad,
  
  No less bereaved to be
  
  Upon a new peninsula, —
  
  The grave preceded me,
  

  Obtained my lodgings ere myself,
  
  And when I sought my bed,
  
  The grave it was, reposed upon
  
  The pillow for my head.
  

  I waked, to find it first awake,
  
  I rose, — it followed me;
  
  I tried to drop it in the crowd,
  
  To lose it in the sea,
  

  In cups of artificial drowse
  
  To sleep its shape away, —
  
  The grave was finished, but the spade
  
  Remained in memory.",524,,bereaved of all i went abroad no less bereaved to be upon a new peninsula the grave preceded me obtained my lodgings ere myself and when i sought my bed the grave it was reposed upon the pillow for my head i waked to find it first awake i rose it followed me i tried to drop it in the crowd to lose it in the sea in cups of artificial drowse to sleep its shape away the grave was finished but the spade remained in memory,421
"  I felt a funeral in my brain,","  I felt a funeral in my brain,
  
  And mourners, to and fro,
  
  Kept treading, treading, till it seemed
  
  That sense was breaking through.
  

  And when they all were seated,
  
  A service like a drum
  
  Kept beating, beating, till I thought
  
  My mind was going numb.
  

  And then I heard them lift a box,
  
  And creak across my soul
  
  With those same boots of lead, again.
  
  Then space began to toll
  

  As all the heavens were a bell,
  
  And Being but an ear,
  
  And I and silence some strange race,
  
  Wrecked, solitary, here.",561,,i felt a funeral in my brain and mourners to and fro kept treading treading till it seemed that sense was breaking through and when they all were seated a service like a drum kept beating beating till i thought my mind was going numb and then i heard them lift a box and creak across my soul with those same boots of lead again then space began to toll as all the heavens were a bell and being but an ear and i and silence some strange race wrecked solitary here,462
  I meant to find her when I came;,"  I meant to find her when I came;
  
  Death had the same design;
  
  But the success was his, it seems,
  
  And the discomfit mine.
  

  I meant to tell her how I longed
  
  For just this single time;
  
  But Death had told her so the first,
  
  And she had hearkened him.
  

  To wander now is my abode;
  
  To rest, — to rest would be
  
  A privilege of hurricane
  
  To memory and me.",399,,i meant to find her when i came death had the same design but the success was his it seems and the discomfit mine i meant to tell her how i longed for just this single time but death had told her so the first and she had hearkened him to wander now is my abode to rest to rest would be a privilege of hurricane to memory and me,327
"  I sing to use the waiting,","  I sing to use the waiting,
  
  My bonnet but to tie,
  
  And shut the door unto my house;
  
  No more to do have I,
  

  Till, his best step approaching,
  
  We journey to the day,
  
  And tell each other how we sang
  
  To keep the dark away.",252,,i sing to use the waiting my bonnet but to tie and shut the door unto my house no more to do have i till his best step approaching we journey to the day and tell each other how we sang to keep the dark away,206
  A sickness of this world it most occasions,"  A sickness of this world it most occasions
  
  When best men die;
  
  A wishfulness their far condition
  
  To occupy.
  

  A chief indifference, as foreign
  
  A world must be
  
  Themselves forsake contented,
  
  For Deity.",234,,a sickness of this world it most occasions when best men die a wishfulness their far condition to occupy a chief indifference as foreign a world must be themselves forsake contented for deity,191
  Superfluous were the sun,"  Superfluous were the sun
  
  When excellence is dead;
  
  He were superfluous every day,
  
  For every day is said
  

  That syllable whose faith
  
  Just saves it from despair,
  
  And whose 'I'll meet you' hesitates
  
  If love inquire, 'Where?'
  

  Upon his dateless fame
  
  Our periods may lie,
  
  As stars that drop anonymous
  
  From an abundant sky.",372,,superfluous were the sun when excellence is dead he were superfluous every day for every day is said that syllable whose faith just saves it from despair and whose ill meet you hesitates if love inquire where upon his dateless fame our periods may lie as stars that drop anonymous from an abundant sky,301
  So proud she was to die,"  So proud she was to die
  
  It made us all ashamed
  
  That what we cherished, so unknown
  
  To her desire seemed.
  

  So satisfied to go
  
  Where none of us should be,
  
  Immediately, that anguish stooped
  
  Almost to jealousy.",242,,so proud she was to die it made us all ashamed that what we cherished so unknown to her desire seemed so satisfied to go where none of us should be immediately that anguish stooped almost to jealousy,199
"  Tie the strings to my life, my Lord,","  Tie the strings to my life, my Lord,
  
  Then I am ready to go!
  
  Just a look at the horses —
  
  Rapid! That will do!
  

  Put me in on the firmest side,
  
  So I shall never fall;
  
  For we must ride to the Judgment,
  
  And it's partly down hill.
  

  But never I mind the bridges,
  
  And never I mind the sea;
  
  Held fast in everlasting race
  
  By my own choice and thee.
  

  Good-by to the life I used to live,
  
  And the world I used to know;
  
  And kiss the hills for me, just once;
  
  Now I am ready to go!",542,,tie the strings to my life my lord then i am ready to go just a look at the horses rapid that will do put me in on the firmest side so i shall never fall for we must ride to the judgment and its partly down hill but never i mind the bridges and never i mind the sea held fast in everlasting race by my own choice and thee goodby to the life i used to live and the world i used to know and kiss the hills for me just once now i am ready to go,441
"  The dying need but little, dear, —","  The dying need but little, dear, —
  
  A glass of water's all,
  
  A flower's unobtrusive face
  
  To punctuate the wall,
  

  A fan, perhaps, a friend's regret,
  
  And certainly that one
  
  No color in the rainbow
  
  Perceives when you are gone.",258,,the dying need but little dear a glass of waters all a flowers unobtrusive face to punctuate the wall a fan perhaps a friends regret and certainly that one no color in the rainbow perceives when you are gone,207
  There's something quieter than sleep,"  There's something quieter than sleep
  
  Within this inner room!
  
  It wears a sprig upon its breast,
  
  And will not tell its name.
  

  Some touch it and some kiss it,
  
  Some chafe its idle hand;
  
  It has a simple gravity
  
  I do not understand!
  

  While simple-hearted neighbors
  
  Chat of the 'early dead,'
  
  We, prone to periphrasis,
  
  Remark that birds have fled!",396,,theres something quieter than sleep within this inner room it wears a sprig upon its breast and will not tell its name some touch it and some kiss it some chafe its idle hand it has a simple gravity i do not understand while simplehearted neighbors chat of the early dead we prone to periphrasis remark that birds have fled,323
"  The soul should always stand ajar,","  The soul should always stand ajar,
  
  That if the heaven inquire,
  
  He will not be obliged to wait,
  
  Or shy of troubling her.
  

  Depart, before the host has slid
  
  The bolt upon the door,
  
  To seek for the accomplished guest, —
  
  Her visitor no more.",273,,the soul should always stand ajar that if the heaven inquire he will not be obliged to wait or shy of troubling her depart before the host has slid the bolt upon the door to seek for the accomplished guest her visitor no more,225
"  Three weeks passed since I had seen her, —","  Three weeks passed since I had seen her, —
  
  Some disease had vexed;
  
  'T was with text and village singing
  
  I beheld her next,
  

  And a company — our pleasure
  
  To discourse alone;
  
  Gracious now to me as any,
  
  Gracious unto none.
  

  Borne, without dissent of either,
  
  To the parish night;
  
  Of the separated people
  
  Which are out of sight?",380,,three weeks passed since i had seen her some disease had vexed t was with text and village singing i beheld her next and a company our pleasure to discourse alone gracious now to me as any gracious unto none borne without dissent of either to the parish night of the separated people which are out of sight,306
"  I breathed enough to learn the trick,","  I breathed enough to learn the trick,
  
  And now, removed from air,
  
  I simulate the breath so well,
  
  That one, to be quite sure
  

  The lungs are stirless, must descend
  
  Among the cunning cells,
  
  And touch the pantomime himself.
  
  How cool the bellows feels!",283,,i breathed enough to learn the trick and now removed from air i simulate the breath so well that one to be quite sure the lungs are stirless must descend among the cunning cells and touch the pantomime himself how cool the bellows feels,236
  I wonder if the sepulchre,"  I wonder if the sepulchre
  
  Is not a lonesome way,
  
  When men and boys, and larks and June
  
  Go down the fields to hay!",130,,i wonder if the sepulchre is not a lonesome way when men and boys and larks and june go down the fields to hay,110
  If tolling bell I ask the cause.,"  If tolling bell I ask the cause.
  
  'A soul has gone to God,'
  
  I'm answered in a lonesome tone;
  
  Is heaven then so sad?
  

  That bells should joyful ring to tell
  
  A soul had gone to heaven,
  
  Would seem to me the proper way
  
  A good news should be given.",278,,if tolling bell i ask the cause a soul has gone to god im answered in a lonesome tone is heaven then so sad that bells should joyful ring to tell a soul had gone to heaven would seem to me the proper way a good news should be given,231
  If I may have it when it's dead,"  If I may have it when it's dead
  
  I will contented be;
  
  If just as soon as breath is out
  
  It shall belong to me,
  

  Until they lock it in the grave,
  
  'T is bliss I cannot weigh,
  
  For though they lock thee in the grave,
  
  Myself can hold the key.
  

  Think of it, lover! I and thee
  
  Permitted face to face to be;
  
  After a life, a death we'll say, —
  
  For death was that, and this is thee.",427,,if i may have it when its dead i will contented be if just as soon as breath is out it shall belong to me until they lock it in the grave t is bliss i cannot weigh for though they lock thee in the grave myself can hold the key think of it lover i and thee permitted face to face to be after a life a death well say for death was that and this is thee,350
"  Before the ice is in the pools,","  Before the ice is in the pools,
  
  Before the skaters go,
  
  Or any cheek at nightfall
  
  Is tarnished by the snow,
  

  Before the fields have finished,
  
  Before the Christmas tree,
  
  Wonder upon wonder
  
  Will arrive to me!
  

  What we touch the hems of
  
  On a summer's day;
  
  What is only walking
  
  Just a bridge away;
  

  That which sings so, speaks so,
  
  When there's no one here, —
  
  Will the frock I wept in
  
  Answer me to wear?",474,,before the ice is in the pools before the skaters go or any cheek at nightfall is tarnished by the snow before the fields have finished before the christmas tree wonder upon wonder will arrive to me what we touch the hems of on a summers day what is only walking just a bridge away that which sings so speaks so when theres no one here will the frock i wept in answer me to wear,378
  I heard a fly buzz when I died;,"  I heard a fly buzz when I died;
  
  The stillness round my form
  
  Was like the stillness in the air
  
  Between the heaves of storm.
  

  The eyes beside had wrung them dry,
  
  And breaths were gathering sure
  
  For that last onset, when the king
  
  Be witnessed in his power.
  

  I willed my keepsakes, signed away
  
  What portion of me I
  
  Could make assignable, — and then
  
  There interposed a fly,
  

  With blue, uncertain, stumbling buzz,
  
  Between the light and me;
  
  And then the windows failed, and then
  
  I could not see to see.",572,,i heard a fly buzz when i died the stillness round my form was like the stillness in the air between the heaves of storm the eyes beside had wrung them dry and breaths were gathering sure for that last onset when the king be witnessed in his power i willed my keepsakes signed away what portion of me i could make assignable and then there interposed a fly with blue uncertain stumbling buzz between the light and me and then the windows failed and then i could not see to see,476
  Adrift! A little boat adrift!,"  Adrift! A little boat adrift!
  
  And night is coming down!
  
  Will no one guide a little boat
  
  Unto the nearest town?
  

  So sailors say, on yesterday,
  
  Just as the dusk was brown,
  
  One little boat gave up its strife,
  
  And gurgled down and down.
  

  But angels say, on yesterday,
  
  Just as the dawn was red,
  
  One little boat o'erspent with gales
  
  Retrimmed its masts, redecked its sails
  
  Exultant, onward sped!",451,,adrift a little boat adrift and night is coming down will no one guide a little boat unto the nearest town so sailors say on yesterday just as the dusk was brown one little boat gave up its strife and gurgled down and down but angels say on yesterday just as the dawn was red one little boat oerspent with gales retrimmed its masts redecked its sails exultant onward sped,371
  There's been a death in the opposite house,"  There's been a death in the opposite house
  
  As lately as to-day.
  
  I know it by the numb look
  
  Such houses have alway.
  

  The neighbors rustle in and out,
  
  The doctor drives away.
  
  A window opens like a pod,
  
  Abrupt, mechanically;
  

  Somebody flings a mattress out, —
  
  The children hurry by;
  
  They wonder if It died on that, —
  
  I used to when a boy.
  

  The minister goes stiffly in
  
  As if the house were his,
  
  And he owned all the mourners now,
  
  And little boys besides;
  

  And then the milliner, and the man
  
  Of the appalling trade,
  
  To take the measure of the house.
  
  There'll be that dark parade
  

  Of tassels and of coaches soon;
  
  It's easy as a sign, —
  
  The intuition of the news
  
  In just a country town.",797,,theres been a death in the opposite house as lately as today i know it by the numb look such houses have alway the neighbors rustle in and out the doctor drives away a window opens like a pod abrupt mechanically somebody flings a mattress out the children hurry by they wonder if it died on that i used to when a boy the minister goes stiffly in as if the house were his and he owned all the mourners now and little boys besides and then the milliner and the man of the appalling trade to take the measure of the house therell be that dark parade of tassels and of coaches soon its easy as a sign the intuition of the news in just a country town,645
"  We never know we go, — when we are going","  We never know we go, — when we are going
  
  We jest and shut the door;
  
  Fate following behind us bolts it,
  
  And we accost no more.",142,,we never know we go when we are going we jest and shut the door fate following behind us bolts it and we accost no more,119
  It struck me every day,"  It struck me every day
  
  The lightning was as new
  
  As if the cloud that instant slit
  
  And let the fire through.
  

  It burned me in the night,
  
  It blistered in my dream;
  
  It sickened fresh upon my sight
  
  With every morning's beam.
  

  I thought that storm was brief, —
  
  The maddest, quickest by;
  
  But Nature lost the date of this,
  
  And left it in the sky.",396,,it struck me every day the lightning was as new as if the cloud that instant slit and let the fire through it burned me in the night it blistered in my dream it sickened fresh upon my sight with every mornings beam i thought that storm was brief the maddest quickest by but nature lost the date of this and left it in the sky,325
  Water is taught by thirst;,"  Water is taught by thirst;
  
  Land, by the oceans passed;
  
  Transport, by throe;
  
  Peace, by its battles told;
  
  Love, by memorial mould;
  
  Birds, by the snow.",175,,water is taught by thirst land by the oceans passed transport by throe peace by its battles told love by memorial mould birds by the snow,137
"  We thirst at first, — 't is Nature's act;","  We thirst at first, — 't is Nature's act;
  
  And later, when we die,
  
  A little water supplicate
  
  Of fingers going by.
  

  It intimates the finer want,
  
  Whose adequate supply
  
  Is that great water in the west
  
  Termed immortality.",253,,we thirst at first t is natures act and later when we die a little water supplicate of fingers going by it intimates the finer want whose adequate supply is that great water in the west termed immortality,204
  A clock stopped — not the mantel's;,"  A clock stopped — not the mantel's;
  
  Geneva's farthest skill
  
  Can't put the puppet bowing
  
  That just now dangled still.
  

  An awe came on the trinket!
  
  The figures hunched with pain,
  
  Then quivered out of decimals
  
  Into degreeless noon.
  

  It will not stir for doctors,
  
  This pendulum of snow;
  
  The shopman importunes it,
  
  While cool, concernless No
  

  Nods from the gilded pointers,
  
  Nods from the seconds slim,
  
  Decades of arrogance between
  
  The dial life and him.",525,,a clock stopped not the mantels genevas farthest skill cant put the puppet bowing that just now dangled still an awe came on the trinket the figures hunched with pain then quivered out of decimals into degreeless noon it will not stir for doctors this pendulum of snow the shopman importunes it while cool concernless no nods from the gilded pointers nods from the seconds slim decades of arrogance between the dial life and him,428
"  All overgrown by cunning moss,","  All overgrown by cunning moss,
  
  All interspersed with weed,
  
  The little cage of 'Currer Bell,'
  
  In quiet Haworth laid.
  

  This bird, observing others,
  
  When frosts too sharp became,
  
  Retire to other latitudes,
  
  Quietly did the same,
  

  But differed in returning;
  
  Since Yorkshire hills are green,
  
  Yet not in all the nests I meet
  
  Can nightingale be seen.
  

  Gathered from many wanderings,
  
  Gethsemane can tell
  
  Through what transporting anguish
  
  She reached the asphodel!
  

  Soft fall the sounds of Eden
  
  Upon her puzzled ear;
  
  Oh, what an afternoon for heaven,
  
  When 'Brontë' entered there!",666,,all overgrown by cunning moss all interspersed with weed the little cage of currer bell in quiet haworth laid this bird observing others when frosts too sharp became retire to other latitudes quietly did the same but differed in returning since yorkshire hills are green yet not in all the nests i meet can nightingale be seen gathered from many wanderings gethsemane can tell through what transporting anguish she reached the asphodel soft fall the sounds of eden upon her puzzled ear oh what an afternoon for heaven when brontë entered there,543
  A toad can die of light!,"  A toad can die of light!
  
  Death is the common right
  
  Of toads and men, —
  
  Of earl and midge
  
  The privilege.
  
  Why swagger then?
  
  The gnat's supremacy
  
  Is large as thine.",198,,a toad can die of light death is the common right of toads and men of earl and midge the privilege why swagger then the gnats supremacy is large as thine,153
  Far from love the Heavenly Father,"  Far from love the Heavenly Father
  
  Leads the chosen child;
  
  Oftener through realm of briar
  
  Than the meadow mild,
  

  Oftener by the claw of dragon
  
  Than the hand of friend,
  
  Guides the little one predestined
  
  To the native land.",257,,far from love the heavenly father leads the chosen child oftener through realm of briar than the meadow mild oftener by the claw of dragon than the hand of friend guides the little one predestined to the native land,215
"  A long, long sleep, a famous sleep","  A long, long sleep, a famous sleep
  
  That makes no show for dawn
  
  By stretch of limb or stir of lid, —
  
  An independent one.
  

  Was ever idleness like this?
  
  Within a hut of stone
  
  To bask the centuries away
  
  Nor once look up for noon?",262,,a long long sleep a famous sleep that makes no show for dawn by stretch of limb or stir of lid an independent one was ever idleness like this within a hut of stone to bask the centuries away nor once look up for noon,216
  'T was just this time last year I died.,"  'T was just this time last year I died.
  
  I know I heard the corn,
  
  When I was carried by the farms, —
  
  It had the tassels on.
  

  I thought how yellow it would look
  
  When Richard went to mill;
  
  And then I wanted to get out,
  
  But something held my will.
  

  I thought just how red apples wedged
  
  The stubble's joints between;
  
  And carts went stooping round the fields
  
  To take the pumpkins in.
  

  I wondered which would miss me least,
  
  And when Thanksgiving came,
  
  If father'd multiply the plates
  
  To make an even sum.
  

  And if my stocking hung too high,
  
  Would it blur the Christmas glee,
  
  That not a Santa Claus could reach
  
  The altitude of me?
  

  But this sort grieved myself, and so
  
  I thought how it would be
  
  When just this time, some perfect year,
  
  Themselves should come to me.",872,,t was just this time last year i died i know i heard the corn when i was carried by the farms it had the tassels on i thought how yellow it would look when richard went to mill and then i wanted to get out but something held my will i thought just how red apples wedged the stubbles joints between and carts went stooping round the fields to take the pumpkins in i wondered which would miss me least and when thanksgiving came if fatherd multiply the plates to make an even sum and if my stocking hung too high would it blur the christmas glee that not a santa claus could reach the altitude of me but this sort grieved myself and so i thought how it would be when just this time some perfect year themselves should come to me,726
"On this wondrous sea,","On this wondrous sea,

Sailing silently,

Ho! pilot, ho!

Knowest thou the shore

Where no breakers roar,

Where the storm is o'er?


In the silent west

Many sails at rest,

Their anchors fast;

Thither I pilot thee, —

Land, ho! Eternity!

Ashore at last!",257,,on this wondrous sea sailing silently ho pilot ho knowest thou the shore where no breakers roar where the storm is oer in the silent west many sails at rest their anchors fast thither i pilot thee land ho eternity ashore at last,228
